---

title: Reducing waste water in reverse osmosis residential drinking water systems
abstract: The production of purified water from a residential reverse osmosis drinking water system is limited by the pressure build up in the holding tank or reservoir. While the pressure in the tank increases the brine or waste water continues to flow at a constant rate. This condition makes an undesirable out of proportion relationship between the purified water and the waste water. The production of product water is controlled by the differential pressure across the purification membrane, as the tank pressure increases the differential pressure decreases and reduced production of product water results. The purpose of the device is to utilize the increasing tank pressure as a force to actuate the valve that proportions the waste water in a direct relationship with the product water. The ratio between the product water and the waste water remains constant during the period that purified water is being delivered to the holding tank.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08083936&OS=08083936&RS=08083936
owner: 
number: 08083936
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20090303
---
This utility patent application has priority benefit of U.S. provisional application No. 61 067 636 filed on Mar. 3 2008.

This invention relates to reverse osmosis residential commercial business drinking water systems and other water systems.

The total dissolved solids in residential drinking water can be drastically reduced by the process of reverse osmosis RO . This is accomplished by forcing water from a normal source a municipal delivery system or a well through a membrane. The liquid that passes through the membrane is known as the permeate while the liquid that does not pass through the membrane is called the brine. The permeate is stored in a pressure tank and the brine is discharged to a waste line.

The relationship between the permeate and the brine is determined by the saturation of dissolved solids in the source water that can vary widely. In an attempt to commercially accommodate this variation a fixed relationship is preset by a fixed orifice. This orifice typically allots five parts brine to one part permeate as a one size fits all device.

The source of the feed water remains relatively constant and brine is discharged to drain through the fixed orifice at a steady rate.

As the permeate passes through the membrane and into the pressure tank it increases the pressure on the permeate side of the membrane. This in turn lowers the differential pressure which decreases the productivity of the permeate while the brine remains at its constant discharge rate.

An object or purpose of the invention is to reduce the amount of waste water when purifying water using reverse osmosis. Another object of the invention is to regulate the brine discharge at a rate proportional to the permeate production. Other objects and purposes of the invention will readily be thought of or ascertained from the disclosure of the invention and application by one skilled in the art.

The objects and purposes of the invention are achieved by the apparatus device system and process of the invention.

As pressure increases in the storage tank the piston is forced through the O ring that relocates it relative and proportional to the passage in the piston. With the original orifice removed from the system this becomes a variable orifice in the invention. Waste water passes through the passage surrounded by the O ring and is discharged by the fitting. The piston has an O ring in an O ring run near one end and a channel of varying width and or depth and or length along the surface of a portion of the other and exiting at the other end.

Reverse osmosis RO is a separation process that uses pressure to force a solution through a membrane that retains the solute on one side and allows the pure solvent to pass to the other side. More formally it is the process of forcing a solvent from a region of high solute concentration through a membrane to a region of low solute concentration by applying a pressure in excess of the osmotic pressure. Here the solvent is water.

Purification of brackish water by reverse osmosis is a recognized process. Reverse osmosis can be used effectively to treat city water to produce a purified grade of water comparable to bottled water . A reverse osmosis system used for such purpose is often referred to as a home unit because an individual household installation will produce purified water for drinking cooking and other home uses where quality water is required.

The reverse osmosis unit will produce product at a relatively slow rate therefore an amount of storage is required to maintain an appropriate amount of purified water for immediate use. Conveniently the supply of purified water is fed into a pressure storage tank that has a diaphragm that separates its interior into two compartments one side with air and the other side with product water. As purified water is delivered into the water side of the tank the air on the other side of the diaphragm is compressed and becomes the energy or driving force to maintain purified water in its tank compartment under pressure higher than atmospheric for delivery to the point of use. When the pressure in the tank reaches a value equal to two thirds for example of the supply pressure it closes the supply line. When product water is drawn from the tank the tank pressure reduces and the supply line reopens.

Supply water under pressure is conducted to a module containing a semipermeable membrane. The water that passes through the membrane under supply line pressure is routed to the pressure tank. The water that does not pass through the membrane is referred to as brine. The brine is discharged to drain through a preset orifice. This discharge is at a constant rate whenever the supply valve is open. The preset orifice is part of the subject of the invention.

As product water is introduced it gradually raises the pressure in the tank. As the pressure in the tank increases it reduces the differential pressure across the membrane. As a result of the slowly lowering differential pressure it is accompanied by a proportional lowering rate of product water production. The purpose of the invention is to maintain the brine in the same proportion as the product water.

In there is the tubular vessel the fitting for entrance of the permeate at one end and the fitting for discharge of the brine at the opposite end. Into the side of the vessel is the third entrance fitting . Internal to the vessel there is the piston with the O ring and the passage channel of varying width and or depth and or length at the opposing ends. The return spring resides at the passage end of the piston . The second O ring is fixed in the barrel of the vessel . The fitting is connected is connected to the back pressure from tanks that is the same pressure seen at the faucet in . The invention means that the existing orifice in the existing waste line is removed and is not required. The side fitting is connected to the waste water fitting of the membrane. The end fitting is connected to the waste or drain. As pressure increases in the storage tank the piston is forced through the O ring that relocates it relative and proportional to the passage in the piston . With the original orifice removed from the system this becomes a variable orifice in the invention. Waste water passes through the passage surrounded by the O ring and is discharged by the fitting . The piston has an O ring in the O ring run near one end and a channel passage of varying width and or depth and or length along and in the surface of a portion of the other end and exiting at the other end.

The reverse osmosis module shown in incorporates the proportioning valve of the invention that in turn incorporates the piston stem of the invention. Incoming feed water comes in line through auto automatic water shut off system and on through line into membrane housing of the reverse osmosis unit . Brine comes out line to proportioning valve and then out line to waste. Permeate comes out of reverse osmosis unit via line through auto water shut off system and then on through line . The permeate can go out line to faucet for use or on through line . Line branches with line connected to the pressure tank permeate can flow in or out of pressure tank depending upon operations at that time. The other branch line of line conveys permeate in or out of the proportioning valve at that time.

A tee is installed in the line between the pressure storage tank and the membrane module. The unused leg of the tee is connected to the top fitting of the invention. The brine line with the usual orifice removed is connected to the side fitting of the invention. The remaining fitting on the bottom of the invention is connected to drain.

As the pressure in the tank increases the resulting pressure in the line depresses the stem in the valve body. This action incrementally moves the stem channel to a proportional position. As this reciprocating motion of the stem occurs it also provides a wiping action of the stem channel. As water is drawn the spring returns the stem to a position relative to the decreased tank pressure.

The preferred stem piston as shown in has a vee shaped channel running about to about of its length. The vee shaped channel slowly decreases in depth as it moves inward on stem until it ends. The channel is widest and deepest at the bottom end and as explained can vary in length and or width and or width. shows the end of stem where it is seen that the vee of channel has angle of 90 degrees that is preferred but the vee angle can be more or less . At its widest and deepest position with zero tank pressure the opening afforded by channel is 0.0004 square inches at 33 psi tank pressure the opening is 0.0001 square inches and at 50 psi tank pressure the opening is 0.000025 square inches. The vee shaped channel has a depth of 0.020 inch where it intersects with the end of stem see and has a depth of 0.010 inch one inch back from where it intersects with the end of stem .

The system as currently used is usually shut off when the tank pressure reaches two thirds of line pressure. The obvious reason for this is the diminishing returns of product water in relation to constant waste water flow. Utilizing the invention makes it possible to extend the margin to three fourths of line pressure.

Table 1 set out below is the data of a run using the preferred stem of the invention shown in and the sampling interview was 30 seconds and the run was conducted at 50 psi line pressure. Table 2 as set out below is the data of a control run using the known prior system the sampling interview was 30 seconds and the run was conducted at 50 psi line pressure. The results of the invention run were much better than the results of the control run.

Regarding and to facilitate ease of assembly cleaning replacement of O rings or any other task that may be necessary during the life of the device a threaded joint is provided between the spring housing and the stem housing . For example the stem housing has a inch NF internal thread that mates a inch NF external thread on the spring housing . These threads are manufactured for example to a class 2 fit since they are not necessarily leak proof and only serve as a joining method. Invention proportioning valve is formed by spring housing and stem housing and is therefore preferred and advantageous.

