---

title: Application of enhanced television services using back-end core software
abstract: A method and system to permit TV viewers to interact with program content broadcast over a subscriber network, such as cable, satellite, internet, or cellular telephone. The details of the ability for the viewer to interact is embedded as data in the program signal. The subscription provider broadcasts a visual indicator as a small icon during programming that informs the viewer that interaction is permitted. The viewer then uses a remote control to purchase products, vote on events, respond to polls, download files, request information, and request callback actions. The TV viewer uses the remote control to send information to a set-top box front-end application, and to iteratively create transactions that are batched and then sent to a back-end core application and database which then handles fulfillment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08683501&OS=08683501&RS=08683501
owner: icueTV, Inc.
number: 08683501
owner_city: Cherry Hill
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20091231
---
The Present Application claims the benefit of and priority to US Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 144 772 hereinafter the 772 Provisional Application filed on Jan. 15 2009 entitled ENHANCED TELEVISION SERVICES BACK END CORE SOFTWARE. The Present Application is also a continuation in part CIP of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 552 235 hereinafter the 235 Application filed on Sep. 1 2009 entitled ENHANCED TELEVISION SERVICES and issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 132 212 as well as PCT International Application Ser. No. PCT US09 55635 hereinafter the 635 Application which is the international counterpart of the 235 Application. Both the 235 and 635 Applications further claimed the benefit of and priority to both the 772 Provisional Application and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 093 713 hereinafter the 713 Provisional Application filed on Sep. 2 2008 entitled ENHANCED TELEVISION SERVICES. The Present Application claims the benefit of and priority to the 235 Application the 635 PCT Application the 772 Provisional Application and the 713 Provisional Application and the 635 PCT Application. The 235 Application the 635 PCT Application the 772 Provisional Application and the 713 Provisional Application are all incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. The subject matter of this application is also related to that of U.S. patent application publication no. US 2012 0144414.

The 235 Application disclosed an interactive television system that allows subscribers to perform a great many functions than those currently available by using their TV remote controls.

Interactive television is very attractive to cable service providers. Cable companies are in the process of adopting the Enhanced TV Binary Interchange Format EBIF and the Open Cable Application Platform OCAP . EBIF is a multimedia content format defined by a specification developed under the OpenCable project of CableLabs Cable Television Laboratories Inc. . The primary purpose of EBIF is to present to a television viewer one or more multimedia pages similar to web pages but specialized for use within an enhanced television or an interactive television system. Action sequences are executed as a result of firing certain predefined events such as a page load event a key press event a click event etc. These events are triggered by the viewer using the remote control. Execution of all events are serialized and controlled by event handlers. On the other hand OCAP is an operating system layer designed for consumer electronics that connects to a television system. Unlike operating systems on a personal computer the cable company controls what OCAP programs run on the consumer s television set. Also designed by CableLabs for the cable networks of North America OCAP programs are intended for interactive services such as eCommerce online banking Electronic program guides and digital video recording. The OCAP standard has not yet been approved by the FCC.

A Multiple System Operator MSO is an operator of multiple cable television systems. A cable system in the US by FCC definition is a facility serving a single community or a distinct governmental entity each with its own franchise agreement with the cable company. Though in the strictest sense any cable company that serves multiple communities is thus an MSO the term today is usually reserved for companies that own a very large number of cable systems.

The 235 Application disclosed an innovative suite of products and services bundled as Enhanced Television Service ETS . ETS functions both on an EBIF and OCAP platform. ETS delivers a host of interactive functions specifically tailored to the broadcast program or commercials. The enhanced and empowered media is then transmitted to the MSO in any one of the many available formats for eventual transmission to the viewer. Invisible and unobtrusive until invoked by the viewer s existing remote control the enhanced media suddenly reveals a wealth of onscreen information and choices. With no additional equipment installation or modification the standard cable television remote control transforms the once passive viewer into a participant ordering information downloads voting responding and making instant purchases. The ETS handles all of these transactions from order processing to billing and fulfillment. By delivering a host of interactive functions cable television operators empowered with the ETS solution can increase their competitive position while maximizing their networks financial potential. Through an intuitive portal application advertisers are able to create and manage their own enhanced television events. They control the look feel and exact moment the trigger is available to the viewer. Advertisers Vendors can also upload products for sale or download and associate them with events described above. The portal also provides statistical data on the performance of events in a dashboard like manner. Also through an intuitive web portal subscribers can look at order history wish lists download items and purchase promotional products. This web portal resides in the MSO s web portal. Again ETS handles all of these transactions from order processing to billing and fulfillment.

A TV viewer will hereinafter be referred to interchangeably as a subscriber or a viewer. Subscribers can interact with the broadcast program or commercial with the remote control. They can participate in the following transactions using the ETS system 

Typically when viewer interaction is possible an icon called an iBug will appear on the screen usually in the lower right hand corner . At that point the viewer will be able to press a button on the remote control that would bring up a menu that is specific to the currently viewed channel. By contrast the GUIDE button brings up a universal guide no matter what channel is being viewed.

The subscriber interacts directly with a software system called ETS Edge that was described in detail in the 235 Application. To perform its functions the ETS Edge front end software must interact with more extensive back end software called ETS Core. The ETS Core software was described in overview in the 235 Application. Every MSO will have multiple ETS Edge systems that are geographically located on its head ends. In addition to multiple ETS Edges every MSO will have one ETS Core system that is centrally located within that MSO. The data from multiple ETS Core systems will go to the Data Warehouse on regular basis for persistent storage and reporting purposes. The Present Application describes the ETS Core system in detail.

Third party vendors and shippers e.g. Amazon and payment processors e.g. PayPal communicate directly with the ETS Core through an MSO network as do administrators Admin and customer service representatives CSR . Each MSO network has a plurality of ETS Edge interfaces that provide geographically local viewer polling purchasing downloading and event presentation.

Whenever the subscriber interacts with the TV he or she interacts using the Set top Box STB that is associated with that TV. The customized application Xlet that is sitting on the STB will listen to these user interactions. The Xlet application will send the relevant requested data to the ETS Edge system and the ETS Edge will respond back to the Xlet. This transaction data will eventually go from ETS Edge to ETS Core system in real time or near real time basis. The ETS Core system will process the actual transaction. In the same way when an event is created in the ETS Core system that event data will be distributed to the relevant ETS Edges. When an ETS Edge receives a request from the TV subscriber the relevant event data will be sent back to the Xlet in the form of the response.

Web portals use the ETS Core system. These portals are developed by using web scripting languages to render pre defined user interfaces so that the user can log into the portal and can perform activities such as view past and current transactions purchase products update profiles etc. The web server of each of the portals communicates with the ETS Core system for each user request and it is the ETS Core system which actually applies the relevant business logic to each and every user activity updates the database and returns the result back to the portal which renders the view page to the user. The ETS Core system has the following web portals 

Business Application Engine comprises the logic to process the User requests and automate transaction processing. It inserts the order into the core system and applies business logic into it. It contacts the payment gateway to charge the user for the product if it is a product sale . All successful transactions will be forwarded to an internal or third party fulfillment center. The confirmation of the transaction will be sent from the third party billing and fulfillment systems. Product sale download request and voting are all handled as a part of this subsystem.

A standard application programming interface API that provides third party developers the ability to utilize CORE services for order processing billing and fulfillment. This is a programmatic API interface not a presentation layer interface so the system is capable of providing hooks into our system to process order generated by third parties.

A standard and secure interface for vendor and partners to view their event performance and information in near real time dashboard and be capable of generating ad hoc reports views on the same data. Report generating metrics should be based on Event ID Product ID Geography or DMA Event Type IR Polling Purchase Digital Event Coverage National Regional Local of Transactions Completed of Transactions Canceled of Transactions Added to WISH LIST of Transactions Volume Transaction Price Dollar Amount Fee Ad Sponsored etc. Transactions Frequency per minute hour day week month year quarter etc. Transactions Payment Type Visa Amex Discover etc. Transactions Denied e.g. problem with payment account blocked etc. Transaction Shipping Type Overnight Standard Email Cellular etc. By Vendor Events Transactions Fulfillment Site etc. By MSO Events Transactions etc. Main or summary reporting should include Number of Transactions Transaction Totals by MSO Region etc

A shipping service module will select a shipment carrier that is offered by the fulfillment house. The carriers included are USPS UPS and FedEx. It will then calculate the total amount by getting the rate from the selected carrier through carriers provided API.

Product identification of images group party pricing multiple item discount product Good Digital Good Service category features description inventory storage supplier fulfillment methods fulfillment logic tiers One to many e.g. warehouse A then B then C geography or DMA availability period status SKU ISBN Catalog ID UPC code DMA or Region Deployment Requirements etc.

Based on the event type and or geographic location of MULTIPLE or SINGLE transactions the CORE system needs to be capable of intelligently acting on those INCOMING requests and be capable of acting on them in a number of ways.

Ability to manage WISH LIST items view initiate order checkout remove from the Portals Admin Subscriber and CSR .

The ETS Core software is described in the drawings using several diagrammatic representations. First there are high level conceptual models that describe the structures and functions of the main components. This is followed by HIPO diagrams. HIPO was a diagrammatic documentation system for software developed by IBM. Information regarding this system can be found in IBM Publication GC20 1851 1 entitled HIPO A Design Aid and Documentation Technique. It was originally designed to promote structured programming. However since the introduction of object oriented programming HIPO has fallen into disuse. Nonetheless it is still an excellent tool for describing software systems. HIPO is an acronym that stands for Hierarchy plus Input Process Output. HIPO documentation comprises a series of diagram charts.

The first chart in each series is a hierarchy chart. This chart appearing like a corporate organization chart displays the calling relationship between the various system modules. Each module appears as a block in the diagram. Lines connect these modules to show their hierarchy. Hierarchy is further shown by assigning numeric labels to the modules. Normally the highest order module would be labeled 1.0. Modules immediately below it hierarchically would be labeled 2.0 3.0 4.0 . . . and so on. Modules hierarchically below 2.0 for example would be labeled 2.1 2.2 2.3 . . . and so on. Modules hierarchically below 2.1 for example would be labeled 2.1.1 2.1.2 2.1.3 . . . and so on. Therefore by looking at the numeric label of any module one can determine its level of hierarchy. A black triangle located at the corner of the module block indicates that the module is re used many times either as a subroutine or as an object.

Following the hierarchy chart each module depicted on that chart receives an IPO chart. The IPO chart is divided into three columns. The leftmost column represents INPUT. The rightmost column represents OUTPUT. The central column represents PROCESS. This is where the various steps in the process are described. Most of the information in the INPUT and OUTPUT columns is graphical e.g. representing terminals hard drives printers etc. . Most of the information in the PROCESS columns is descriptive text showing the procedural steps. Arrows connect the PROCESS column to the INPUT and OUTPUT columns to show data flow.

Each IPO chart may have an Extended Description showing notes about the various steps in the process. These act almost like footnotes in a document. They are usually too detailed or extraneous to include in the steps denoted in the PROCESS column.

Finally many modules have architecture flow diagrams that show a linear flow of the procedures executed by those modules

A standard plug able into existing MSO administration portals secure interface for Customer Service Representatives CSR s Managers Administrators to have access to an event order subscriber product inventory maintenance monitoring reporting and security management ALL based on their job responsibilities and roles to limit system access.

Table 1 represents an overview of the Administrative Portal of the ETS Core system. is a HIPO Hierarchy diagram showing the organization of the Administrative Portal software modules. In this chart the detailed organization of the modules is shown. The hierarchy indicates the calling sequence for each of the modules. Therefore for example Module 1.0 ETS Core Admin calls Module 2.0 Catalog which in turn calls Module 2.1 Main . The six main functions shown in Table 1 are expanded to form six branches further comprising additional software modules. Table 2 also shows the Administrative Portal hierarchy. This is the software used by Customer Service Representatives CSR s Managers and Administrators to create new entries in the catalog to service customers with problems to perform web site updates and to control server status. is an architecture flow chart of this last function. It illustrates the sequence of computer activities performed by a Controller. The Controller sets up user sessions and associates them with the appropriate product session and event information. It establishes communication with Framework Services and creates an individualized markup file from Java templates. Once this file is created the information therein is displayed to the user.

A standard plug able into existing MSO subscriber portals and secure interface for MSO subscribers to manage their subscriber accounts opt in out of service manage single or multiple profiles per household passwords security settings payment methods shipping preferences loyalty accounts general interests for more targeted offers via portal etc. 

Not all of the Subscriber s purchases are physical products requiring shipment. Subscribers download various software and data files from the system as well. is a HIPO Hierarchy diagram showing the calling sequence of modules for processing downloads. Except for the fact that items are not physically shipped downloaded products are handled in much the same way as physical products. A user fills up his or her shopping cart with downloads and after checkout the downloads become available to the user immediately. A user may view download orders along with personal historical data. is an IPO diagram showing the sequence of steps performed by the My Downloads module 3.0 .

A Subscriber has the option of setting up a Wish List Module 4.0 . This function is similar to those performed by invoking My Orders 2.0 or My Downloads 3.0 except that nothing is actually purchased. The Wish List is there for future or potential purchases. It is accessible by the Subscriber as well as trusted third parties. is a HIPO Hierarchy diagram showing the calling sequence of modules for processing wish lists. is an IPO diagram showing the sequence of steps performed by the Wish List module 4.0 .

Upon becoming a Subscriber a profile is set up for the user and maintained in the server database. Contained within the profile is personal information shipping and payment information preferences order history etc. A Subscriber may access his or her profile. is a HIPO hierarchy diagram showing the calling sequence of modules for processing Subscriber profile data. is an IPO diagram showing the sequence of steps performed by the My Profile module 5.0 .

A Subscriber uses his or her remote control to perform two principal functions shopping and voting. When a Subscriber votes that user communicates his or her opinion to the cable service provider via the ETS Core software. Voting occurs in response to queries made to the user. The user presses specific keys in response to the queries. In this case votes would be transmitted in real time. Voting can also be part of shopping. Once again the user accesses the Shopping Cart. He or she may search products and answer questions regarding those products. In this case votes would be queued in the shopping cart for batch submission. is a HIPO hierarchy diagram showing the calling sequence for processing Subscriber votes. Note the repetition of Modules 7.1 7.3 and 7.4. The only module unique to My Votes 6.0 is View Votes 6.1 . is an IPO diagram showing the sequence of steps performed by the View Votes module 6.1 .

The Go Shopping software Module 7.0 represents to primary reason for cable companies to implement the ETS system. Currently advertisers display their products on television hoping that viewers will purchase these products. They blast commercials onto television sets knowing that the more exposure they receive the greater number of products will be purchased. Generally advertisers do not know what associated program or what time slots produce the best results. There are general parameters but the exact source of incentives to purchase is mostly unknown. Some advertisers provide toll free telephone numbers for viewers to call. In response many viewers call those numbers immediately to place orders. A few call later but most viewers do not take the time to call. Once the telephone number disappears from a viewer s memory the advertiser can be assured that the viewer will not call. Use of a remote control already in the user s hand makes purchase of a product easy and immediate. In response to an advertisement a user can click a product into his or her shopping cart and can submit orders after the program finishes. In addition advertisements may now be pushed while the program is still running. For example during a program a symbol appears on the bottom of the screen. A user knows that when such a symbol appears he or she may press a button on the remote control to get more information. Yet the program continues to run and the view is uninterrupted. The information may be in the form of a vote request or of a special purchase offer. A great benefit of the system is that an advertiser now knows the source of the purchase and can better plan future advertising.

Within the software of Module 7.2 View Featured Products is Module 7.2.1 Product Detail. highlights this module and is an IPO diagram showing the sequence of steps for Product Detail 7.2.1 . Similarly is a HIPO hierarchy diagram of Module 7.0 with Module 7.2.2 Wish List highlighted. A wish list is a group of shopping cart entries that are not immediately purchased but may be purchased later. A Subscriber s wish list may be reviewed by the Subscriber or anyone else that he or she may designate as long as there are items in the shopping cart. For example future brides or expectant mothers may register for preferred gifts using this system and friends and family can purchase these gifts for them by using their own remote controls. is an IPO diagram showing the sequence of steps to Module 7.2.2. represents the architecture flow chart for this module.

Module 7.2.3 is used to add items to the shopping cart. The HIPO hierarchy diagram of highlights this module. is an IPO diagram showing the sequence of steps required to add items and represents the architecture flow chart. The HIPO hierarchy diagram of highlights Module 7.3 Cart Summary and is the IPO diagram therefor. Module 8.0 Shopping Cart controls viewing of the cart contents. is a HIPO diagram representing the modular calling sequence for this module. is an IPO diagram for Module 8.0 and is an architecture flow chart for this module.

Finally there remain the Subscriber Portal administrative functions of registration login and logout. These functions are represented by . and are HIPO hierarchy diagrams of those functions respectively while and are their respective IPO diagrams. is the architecture flow chart for Module 10.0 Register.

A standard and secure interface for vendor and partners to view their event performance and information in near real time dashboard and be capable of generating ad hoc reports to screen email or document format e.g. PDF ODS CSV Tab delimited etc. Report generating metrics should be based on 

Table 5 shows an overview of the hierarchy of the Vendor Portal while Table 6 shows the entire detailed hierarchy of the Vendor Portal. The three principal functional software modules of the Vendor Portal are the Dashboard 2.0 Product Management 3.0 and Event Management 4.0 .

The third principle function in the Vendor Portal Dashboard is that which a vendor may access Subscriber voting results. This is represented by Module 2.4 Dashboard Voting. shows a conceptual model of the Voting 2.4 module. is a HIPO hierarchy diagram showing the calling sequence of the Voting 2.4 module. is an IPO diagram for this module and is an architecture flow chart for this module. Once again referring to Table 6 the Voting 2.4 module calls several sub modules among which is Module 2.4.1.1 Dashboard Poll Report. is a HIPO hierarchy flow chart for the Poll Reporting module. are IPO diagrams and architecture flow charts for this module respectively.

The final Dashboard sub module is Export Data 2.5 . shows a conceptual model of this module. is a HIPO hierarchy diagram showing the calling sequence for the Dashboard Export Data 2.5 module. There are four data streams that can be exported 

A principle function of the Vendor Portal is to allow the vendor to perform Product Management. This software is available in Module 3.0. shows a conceptual model of the Product Management function as seen from the vendor s viewpoint. Once again refer to Table 6 to visualize the entire detailed hierarchy of the Product Management function within the Vendor Portal. The eight principal sub modules of the Product Management 3.0 module are 

Category is the software module that allows maintenance of the Category database. are both IPO diagrams describing the procedural steps taken by Module 3.2.5.1 View Category and Module 3.2.5.2 Add New Category respectively.

The third major component of the Vendor Portal is Event Management. shows a conceptual view of the functionality of Event Management from the viewpoint of the vendor. Event Management has five major functional components 

PID insertion is a unique feature of the system. This module allows the insertion of event data into the private data stream of a video thus creating an enhanced video file. Additionally it uses external software such as VLC plug in and Java Web to create a more user friendly interface for input of timing and product selection options prior to enhancement.

This portal allows a CSR the ability to manage Subscriber orders e.g. place orders on hold or cancel change order payment method should a preferred payment method be denied change shipping preferences method address. If an order has not been sent out for fulfillment and other ecommerce site CSR services etc. placed via the set top box application or e commerce shopping cart interface.

Secure storage of sensitive information user ID passwords credit cards address etc. within EACH of the CORE system s .

Roles based security Admin Vendor Subscriber and CSR . Role based security to all portals and resources.

Ability to secure ALL data exchange receive and transmit to the EDGE from the CORE with little effect on performance. VPN should be the standard unless secure transactions can be realized via other methods secure database transactions etc. 

Ability to secure ALL data exchange receive and transmit to external third party entities PayPal Payflow Amazon etc. 

Ability to audit the transactions and comply with future financial regulations like Sarbanes Oxley audit capabilities on all record changes report on every user who has access to any system and how they obtained that access etc. .

Load balancers distribute the traffic among web servers that are configured in the cluster. All servers are clustered so that when one specific server goes down the counter part in the cluster will provide the service. Eventually the system will provide high availability and scalability.

Within the Present Application the Applicant is his own lexicographer. Definitions presented in the glossary supersede the plain and ordinary meaning of the defined terms.

