---

title: Methods and compositions for treatment of retinoid-responsive conditions
abstract: Methods and composition for treating a retinoid-responsive condition in a subject are provided according to embodiments of the present invention which include administering a therapeutically effective amount of a substance selected from the group consisting of: neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin (NGAL), an NGAL analog, an NGAL stimulator and an analog of an NGAL stimulator, to a subject having a retinoid-responsive condition. Retinoid-responsive conditions illustratively include acne, rosacea, psoriasis, promyelocytic leukemia and neuroblastoma.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09308239&OS=09308239&RS=09308239
owner: The Penn State Research Foundation
number: 09308239
owner_city: University Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090226
---
This application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. Nos. 61 031 475 filed Feb. 26 2008 and 61 103 724 filed Oct. 8 2008 the entire content of both of which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with government support under RO1 AR47820 awarded by NIAMS NIH. The government has certain rights in the invention.

Described are compositions and methods generally relating to treatment of retinoid responsive conditions in a subject. In specific embodiments compositions and methods described herein relate to neutrophil gelatinase associated lipocalin analogs and stimulators thereof and their use in treatment of retinoid responsive conditions in a subject.

A number of pathological conditions illustratively including acne rosacea psoriasis promyelocytic leukemia and neuroblastoma are currently treated using retinoids and are considered retinoid responsive conditions.

For example acne is the most prevalent skin condition encountered by dermatologists affecting nearly 85 of the people between the ages of 12 and 24 years 15 . While acne is not life threatening it does have significant physical and psychosocial morbidity 16 . Acne results from the interplay of 4 factors increased production sebum by the sebaceous gland altered keratinization of follicular keratinocytes activity of and inflammation. contributes to the inflammation associated with acne via activation of Toll like receptor 2 on the surface of inflammatory cells in the skin infiltrate 17 .

Isotretinoin 13 cis RA is the most potent agent that affects all the pathogenic features of acne. It is the only therapeutic agent that drastically reduces the size and secretion of sebaceous glands. However isotretinoin like thalidomide is a teratogen and its use is closely regulated through an FDA mandated risk management program called iPLEDGE.

Methods of treating a retinoid responsive condition in a subject are provided according to embodiments of the present invention which include administering a therapeutically effective amount of a substance selected from the group consisting of neutrophil gelatinase associated lipocalin NGAL an NGAL analog an NGAL stimulator and an analog of an NGAL stimulator to a subject having a retinoid responsive condition. Optionally the NGAL analog is an NGAL receptor agonist. In a further option the NGAL stimulator is selected from the group consisting of a Toll like receptor 2 ligand a Toll like receptor 3 ligand an activator of NF B leukotriene B4 cholesterol oleate and IL 17. Exemplary activators of NF B that can be used in methods of treatment of retinoid responsive conditions include IL1 beta and TNF alpha. IL1 beta and TNF alpha can be used individually or in combination.

Retinoid responsive conditions are well known in the art and include acne rosacea psoriasis promyelocytic leukemia and neuroblastoma. In embodiments of methods of the present invention the protein is administered to skin affected by acne rosacea and or psoriasis. In further embodiments the protein is administered to sebaceous glands of a subject affected by acne rosacea and or psoriasis.

An exemplary Toll like receptor 2 ligand used in embodiments of methods of the present invention is N palmitoyl S 2 3 bis palmitoyloxy 2RS propyl R cysteinyl S seryl S lysyl S lysyl S lysyl S lysine. An exemplary Toll like receptor 3 ligand used in embodiments of methods of the present invention is polyinosinic polycytidylic acid.

Methods of treating a retinoid responsive condition in a subject according to embodiments of the present invention include stimulating NEAL expression in a subject having a retinoid responsive condition. Methods of treating acne rosacea psoriasis promyelocytic leukemia or neuroblastoma in a subject according to embodiments of the present invention include stimulating NGAL expression in a subject having acne rosacea psoriasis promyelocytic leukemia or neuroblastoma. In embodiments of methods of the present invention NGAL expression is stimulated by administration of an NGAL stimulator which upregulates transcription of a gene encoding NGAL and or increases translation of NGAL to increase NGAL protein to a subject having a retinoid responsive condition. Optionally NGAL expression is stimulated by administration of a nucleic acid encoding NGAL to the subject.

An NGAL stimulator used in treatment of a retinoid responsive condition is selected from the group consisting of a Toll like receptor 2 ligand a Toll like receptor 3 ligand an activator of NF B leukotriene B4 cholesterol oleate and IL 17 according to embodiments of methods of the present invention. In particular embodiments the activator of NF B is IL1 beta. TNF alpha or a combination thereof. An exemplary Toll like receptor 2 ligand used in treatment of a retinoid responsive condition according to embodiments of the present invention is N Palmitoyl S 2 3 bis palmitoyloxy 2RS propyl R cysteinyl S seryl S lysyl S lysyl S lysyl S lysine. An exemplary Toll like receptor 3 ligand used in treatment of a retinoid responsive condition according to embodiments of the present invention is polyinosinic polycytidylic acid.

Methods of treating retinoid responsive condition in a subject are provided according to embodiments of the present invention which include administering a therapeutically effective amount of a protein selected from a protein comprising the amino acid of SEQ ID No. 1 a protein comprising the amino acid of SEQ ID No. 2 a protein encoded by the complement of a nucleic acid that hybridizes under highly stringent conditions with the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID No 3 a protein encoded by the complement of a nucleic acid that hybridizes under highly stringent conditions with the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID No. 4 wherein the highly stringent conditions are hybridization in a solution containing 6 SSC 5 Denhardt s solution 30 formamide and 100 micrograms ml denatured salmon sperm at 37 C. overnight followed by washing in a solution of 0.1 SSC and 0.1 SDS at 60 C. for 15 minutes a protein comprising an amino acid sequence that is at least 95 identical to SEQ ID No. 1 and a protein comprising an amino acid sequence that is at least 95 identical to SEQ ID No. 2 to a subject having a retinoid responsive condition.

Methods of inhibiting are provided according to methods of the present invention which include contacting a bacterium with a substance selected from the group consisting of NGAL and an NGAL analog. In preferred embodiments the bacterium is in contact with a human subject such as a subject having acne rosacea or a predisposition to having acne or rosacea.

In further embodiments methods of inhibiting are provided according to the present invention which include administering an NGAL stimulator and or an analog of an NGAL stimulator to a subject colonized by or having a predisposition to colonization by

Compositions are provided according to embodiments of the present invention which include neutrophil gelatinase associated lipocalin NGAL an NGAL analog an NGAL stimulator or an analog of an NGAL stimulator. A combination of two or more of neutrophil gelatinase associated lipocalin NGAL an NGAL analog an NGAL stimulator and an analog of an NGAL stimulator can be included in compositions according to embodiments of the present invention Compositions according to embodiments of the present invention optionally include a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. NGAL stimulators included in compositions according to embodiments of the present invention can be a Toll like receptor 2 ligand a Toll like receptor 3 ligand an activator of NF B N Palmitoyl S 2 3 bis palmitoyloxy 2RS propyl R cysteinyl S seryl S lysyl S lysyl S lysyl S lysine polyinosinic polycytidylic acid leukotriene B4 cholesterol oleate or IL 17. A combination of two or more of a Toll like receptor 2 ligand a Toll like receptor 3 ligand an activator of NF B leukotriene B4 N Palmitoyl S 2 3 bis palmitoyloxy 2RS propyl R cysteinyl S seryl S lysyl S lysyl S lysyl S lysine polyinosinic polycytidylic acid cholesterol oleate or IL 17 can be included in compositions according to embodiments of the present invention. In further embodiments compositions according to the present invention include a protein selected from a protein comprising the amino acid of SEQ ID No. 1 a protein comprising the amino acid of SEQ ID No. 2 a protein encoded by the complement of a nucleic acid that hybridizes under highly stringent conditions with the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID No. 3 a protein encoded by the complement of a nucleic acid that hybridizes under highly stringent conditions with the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID No. 4 wherein the highly stringent conditions are hybridization in a solution containing 6 SSC 5 Denhardt s solution 30 formamide and 100 micrograms ml denatured salmon sperm at 37 C. overnight followed by washing in a solution of 0.1 SSC and 0.1 SDS at 60 C. for 15 minutes a protein comprising an amino acid sequence that is at least 95 identical to SEQ ID No. 1 and a protein comprising an amino acid sequence that is at least 95 identical to SEQ ID No. 2 to a subject having a retinoid responsive condition.

In still further embodiments compositions and methods according to the present invention include a protein selected from a protein comprising the amino acid of SEQ ID No. 1 a protein comprising the amino acid of SEQ ID No. 2 a protein encoded by the complement of a nucleic acid that hybridizes under highly stringent conditions with nucleotides 74 670 of the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID No. 3 a protein encoded by the complement of a nucleic acid that hybridizes under highly stringent conditions with nucleotides 23 625 of the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID No. 4 wherein the highly stringent conditions are hybridization in a solution containing 6 SSC 5 Denhardt s solution 30 formamide and 100 micrograms ml denatured salmon sperm at 37 C. overnight followed by washing in a solution of 0.1 SSC and 0.1 SDS at 60 C. for 15 minutes a protein comprising an amino acid sequence that is at least 95 identical to SEQ ID No. 1 and a protein comprising an amino acid sequence that is at least 95 identical to SEQ ID No. 2 to a subject having a retinoid responsive condition.

Methods and compositions relating to neutrophil gelatinase associated lipocalin NGAL also referred to as lipocalin 2 and LCN2 NGAL analogs and use of NGAL and NGAL analogs are provided according to embodiments of the present invention for treatment of retinoid responsive conditions. Methods and compositions relating to increasing levels and or activity of NGAL and or NGAL analogs and use of substances which increase levels and or activity of NGAL and or NGAL analogs are provided according to embodiments of the present invention for treatment of retinoid responsive conditions.

The term retinoid responsive condition refers to any disease or condition for which administration of one or more retinoids has a beneficial effect. Retinoid responsive conditions that can be treated using compositions and methods of the present invention include but are not limited to inflammatory dermatological conditions including but not limited to acne rosacea urticaria eczema and psoriasis and proliferative disorders including but not limited to promyelocytic leukemia and neuroblastoma.

Retinoids are well known in the art and include retinol retinal tretinoin isotretinoin alitretinoin etretinate acitretin tazarotene bexarotene and adapalene.

Scientific and technical terms used herein are intended to have the meanings commonly understood by those of ordinary skill in the art. Such terms are found defined and used in context in various standard references illustratively including J. Sambrook and D. W. Russell Molecular Cloning A Laboratory Manual Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press 3rd Ed. 2001 F. M. Ausubel Ed. Short Protocols in Molecular Biology Current Protocols 5th Ed. 2002 and B. Alberts et al. Molecular Biology of the Cell 4th Ed. Garland 2002 D. L. Nelson and M. M. Cox Lehninger Principles of Biochemistry 4th Ed. W.H. Freeman Company 2004.

The term NGAL refers to NGAL protein disclosed herein and orthologs from any species. The term NGAL analog refers to a substance having a functional characteristic of NGAL. In particular an NGAL analog is effective to produce a desired physiologic or pharmacologic effect in a subject having a retinoid responsive pathological condition prevents or ameliorates a retinoid responsive pathological condition in the subject. In further embodiments an NGAL analog is effective to inhibit

NGAL used in methods according to embodiments of the present invention and included in compositions according to embodiments of the present invention can be apo NGAL or holo NGAL.

In embodiments of the present invention the term NGAL refers to proteins of SEQ ID Nos. 1 and 2 and analogs thereof which have a desired NGAL function particularly inhibition of and or apoptotic activity in sebocytes.

As used herein the term NGAL analog refers to both naturally occurring variations of a given NGAL protein and recombinantly prepared mutations of a given NGAL protein as well as functional fragments thereof.

The term NGAL analog refers to a protein characterized by an amino acid sequence substantially similar to the amino acid sequence of human NGAL SEQ ID No. 1 or mouse NGAL SEQ ID No. 2 and which has substantially similar functional properties compared to human NGAL or mouse NGAL. Substantially similar analogs of human NGAL or mouse NGAL have at least 80 or at least 85 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 or greater amino acid sequence identity to human NGAL or mouse NGAL. An NGAL analog can be encoded by a nucleic acid sequence having substantial similarity to nucleic acid sequences encoding human NGAL and mouse NGAL disclosed herein. A nucleic acid sequence having substantial similarity to a nucleic acid sequence encoding human NGAL or mouse NGAL has at least 70 at least 75 or at least 85 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 or greater nucleic acid sequence identity to nucleic acid sequences encoding human NGAL or mouse NGAL.

In embodiments of the present invention a substantially similar nucleic acid sequence is characterized as having a complementary nucleic acid sequence capable of hybridizing to a nucleic acid sequence encoding human NGAL or mouse NGAL under high stringency hybridization conditions.

The term nucleic acid as used herein refers to RNA or DNA molecules having more than one nucleotide in any form including single stranded double stranded oligonucleotide or polynucleotide. The term nucleotide sequence is used to refer to the ordering of nucleotides in an oligonucleotide or polynucleotide in a single stranded form of nucleic acid.

The term complementary as used herein refers to Watson Crick base pairing between nucleotides and specifically refers to nucleotides hydrogen bonded to one another with thymine or uracil residues linked to adenine residues by two hydrogen bonds and cytosine and guanine residues linked by three hydrogen bonds. In general a nucleic acid includes a nucleotide sequence described as having a percent complementarity to a specified second nucleotide sequence. For example a nucleotide sequence may have 80 90 or 100 complementarity to a specified second nucleotide sequence indicating that 8 of 10 9 of 10 or 10 of 10 nucleotides of a sequence are complementary to the specified second nucleotide sequence. For instance the nucleotide sequence 3 TCGA 5 is 100 complementary to the nucleotide sequence 5 AGCT 3 . Further the nucleotide sequence 3 TCGA is 100 complementary to a region of the nucleotide sequence 5 TTAGCTGG 3 .

The terms hybridization and hybridizes refer to pairing and binding of complementary nucleic acids. Hybridization occurs to varying extents between two nucleic acids depending on factors such as the degree of complementarity of the nucleic acids the melting temperature Tm of the nucleic acids and the stringency of hybridization conditions as is well known in the art. The term stringency of hybridization conditions refers to conditions of temperature ionic strength and composition of a hybridization medium with respect to particular common additives such as formamide and Denhardt s solution. Determination of particular hybridization conditions relating to a specified nucleic acid is routine and is well known in the art for instance as described in J. Sambrook and D. W. Russell Molecular Cloning A Laboratory Manual Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press 3rd Ed. 2001 and F. M. Ausubel Ed. Short Protocols in Molecular Biology Current Protocols 5th Ed. 2002. High stringency hybridization conditions are those which only allow hybridization of substantially complementary nucleic acids. Typically nucleic acids having about 85 100 complementarity are considered highly complementary and hybridize under high stringency conditions. Intermediate stringency conditions are exemplified by conditions under which nucleic acids having intermediate complementarity about 50 84 complementarity as well as those having a high degree of complementarity hybridize. In contrast low stringency hybridization conditions are those in which nucleic acids having a low degree of complementarity hybridize.

The terms specific hybridization and specifically hybridizes refer to hybridization of a particular nucleic acid to a target nucleic acid without substantial hybridization to nucleic acids other than the target nucleic acid in a sample.

Stringency of hybridization and washing conditions depends on several factors including the Tm of the probe and target and ionic strength of the hybridization and wash conditions as is well known to the skilled artisan. Hybridization and conditions to achieve a desired hybridization stringency are described for example in Sambrook et al. Molecular Cloning A Laboratory Manual Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press 2001 and Ausubel F. et al. Eds. Short Protocols in Molecular Biology Wiley 2002.

An example of high stringency hybridization conditions is hybridization of nucleic acids over about 100 nucleotides in length in a solution containing 6 SSC 5 Denhardt s solution 30 formamide and 100 micrograms ml denatured salmon sperm at 37 C. overnight followed by washing in a solution of 0.1 SSC and 0.1 SDS at 60 C. for 15 minutes. SSC is 0.15M NaCl 0.015M Na citrate. Denhardt s solution is 0.02 bovine serum albumin 0.02 FICOLL 0.02 polyvinylpyrrolidone. Under highly stringent conditions SEQ ID No. 3 or SEQ ID No. 4 will hybridize to the complement of substantially identical targets and not to unrelated sequences. In preferred embodiments under highly stringent conditions at least the coding region of SEQ ID No. 3 nucleotides 74 670 or SEQ ID No. 4 nucleotides 23 625 will hybridize to the complement of substantially identical targets and not to unrelated sequences.

Mutations can be introduced using standard molecular biology techniques such as site directed mutagenesis and PCR mediated mutagenesis. One of skill in the art will recognize that one or more amino acid mutations can be introduced without altering the functional properties of NGAL. For example one or more amino acid substitutions additions or deletions can be made without altering the functional properties of NGAL.

Conservative amino acid substitutions can be made in NGAL proteins to produce NGAL analogs. Conservative amino acid substitutions are art recognized substitutions of one amino acid for another amino acid having similar characteristics. For example each amino acid may be described as having one or more of the following characteristics electropositive electronegative aliphatic aromatic polar hydrophobic and hydrophilic. A conservative substitution is a substitution of one amino acid having a specified structural or functional characteristic for another amino acid having the same characteristic. Acidic amino acids include aspartate glutamate basic amino acids include histidine lysine arginine aliphatic amino acids include isoleucine leucine and valine aromatic amino acids include phenylalanine glycine tyrosine and tryptophan polar amino acids include aspartate glutamate histidine lysine asparagine glutamine arginine serine threonine and tyrosine and hydrophobic amino acids include alanine cysteine phenylalanine glycine isoleucine leucine methionine proline valine and tryptophan and conservative substitutions include substitution among amino acids within each group. Amino acids may also be described in terms of relative size alanine cysteine aspartate glycine asparagine proline threonine serine valine all typically considered to be small.

NGAL analogs can include synthetic amino acid analogs amino acid derivatives and or non standard amino acids illustratively including without limitation alpha aminobutyric acid citrulline canavanine cyanoalanine diaminobutyric acid diaminopimelic acid dihydroxy phenylalanine djenkolic acid homoarginine hydroxyproline norleucine norvaline 3 phosphoserine homoserine 5 hydroxytryptophan 1 methylhistidine 3 methylhistidine and ornithine.

Embodiments of methods and compositions of the present invention include NGAL proteins having at least 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 or 99 amino acid sequence identity to SEQ ID No. 1 or SEQ ID No.2.

To determine the percent identity of two amino acid sequences or of two nucleic acid sequences the sequences are aligned for optimal comparison purposes e.g. gaps can be introduced in the sequence of a first amino acid or nucleic acid sequence for optimal alignment with a second amino acid or nucleic acid sequence . The amino acid residues or nucleotides at corresponding amino acid positions or nucleotide positions are then compared. When a position in the first sequence is occupied by the same amino acid residue or nucleotide as the corresponding position in the second sequence then the molecules are identical at that position. The percent identity between the two sequences is a function of the number of identical positions shared by the sequences i.e. identity number of identical overlapping positions total number of positions 100 . In one embodiment the two sequences are the same length.

The determination of percent identity between two sequences can also be accomplished using a mathematical algorithm. A preferred non limiting example of a mathematical algorithm utilized for the comparison of two sequences is the algorithm of Karlin and Altschul 1990 PNAS 87 2264 2268 modified as in Karlin and Altschul 1993 PNAS. 90 5873 5877. Such an algorithm is incorporated into the NBLAST and XBLAST programs of Altschul et al. 1990 J. Mol. Biol. 215 403. BLAST nucleotide searches are performed with the NBLAST nucleotide program parameters set e.g. for score 100 wordlength 12 to obtain nucleotide sequences homologous to a nucleic acid molecules of the present invention. BLAST protein searches are performed with the XBLAST program parameters set e.g. to score 50 wordlength 3 to obtain amino acid sequences homologous to a protein molecule of the present invention. To obtain gapped alignments for comparison purposes Gapped BLAST are utilized as described in Altschul et al. 1997 Nucleic Acids Res. 25 3389 3402. Alternatively PSI BLAST is used to perform an iterated search which detects distant relationships between molecules Id. . When utilizing BLAST Gapped BLAST and PSI Blast programs the default parameters of the respective programs e.g. of XBLAST and NBLAST are used see e.g. the NCBI website . Another preferred non limiting example of a mathematical algorithm utilized for the comparison of sequences is the algorithm of Myers and Miller 1988 CABIOS 4 11 17. Such an algorithm is incorporated in the ALIGN program version 2.0 which is part of the GCG sequence alignment software package. When utilizing the ALIGN program for comparing amino acid sequences a PAM120 weight residue table a gap length penalty of 12 and a gap penalty of 4 is used.

The percent identity between two sequences is determined using techniques similar to those described above with or without allowing gaps. In calculating percent identity typically only exact matches are counted.

NGAL can be produced in recombinant host cells using well known conventional techniques. Broadly described a nucleic acid molecule encoding NGAL is operably linked to regulatory sequences that control transcriptional expression in an expression vector. The expression vector is introduced into a host cell where it is expressed and the NGAL can then be isolated.

An expression vector including a nucleic acid encoding NGAL is administered to a subject to treat a retinoic acid responsive condition according to embodiments of the present invention.

Non limiting examples of regulatory sequences that control transcriptional expression in an expression vector illustratively include a promoter an enhancer a splicing signal a transcription start site a transcription termination signal a polyadenylation signal an internal ribosome entry site IRES and combinations of these or other regulatory sequences. A secretory sequence encoding a secretion signal that directs an encoded heterologous protein into the secretory pathway of a host cell is optionally included. Additional sequences optionally included in an expression vector include one or more sequences encoding a marker suitable for selection of cells carrying the expression vector.

Viral expression vectors can be used to express a desired protein. Non limiting examples of virus expression systems include adenovirus adeno associated virus herpes virus vaccinia virus and lentivirus.

A host cell for expression of NGAL can be prokaryotic or eukaryotic such as bacterial plant insect fungus yeast and mammalian cells.

An expression vector is introduced into a host cell using well known techniques such as infection or transfection including calcium phosphate transfection liposome mediated transfection electroporation and sonoporation. Expression constructs and methods for their generation and use to express a desired protein are known in the art as described for example in Sambrook et al. Molecular Cloning A Laboratory Manual Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press 2001 Ausubel F. et al. Eds. Short Protocols in Molecular Biology Wiley 2002 and S. J. Higgins and B. D. Hames Eds. Protein Expression A Practical Approach Oxford University Press USA 1999.

In addition to recombinant methodology chemical synthetic techniques can be used to produce NGAL. For example NGAL can be produced using solid phase synthesis solution phase synthesis partial solid phase synthesis or fragment condensation.

The term isolated as used herein refers to a substance that has been separated from contaminating cellular components associated with the substance in nature not intended to be associated with the substance and that would interfere with use of the substance in therapeutic prophylactic diagnostic or other uses. Generally an isolated substance described herein is at least about 80 pure at least about 90 pure at least about 95 pure or greater than about 99 pure. Purification is achieved using well known standard methodology such as fractionation and or chromatography such as ammonium sulfate precipitation and elution chromatography such as size exclusion chromatography displacement chromatography ion exchange chromatography and bioaffinity chromatography. Exemplary purification methodology is described in S. Doonan Protein Purification Protocols Humana Press 1996.

In embodiments of the present invention isolated NGAL an isolated NGAL analog an isolated NGAL stimulator and or an isolated analog of an NGAL stimulator is administered to a subject and or included in a composition of the present invention.

A substance effective to increase NGAL and or produce a therapeutic effect of NGAL in a subject is administered to a subject having a retinoid responsive condition according to embodiments of the present invention.

The term NGAL stimulator refers to substances effective to increase NGAL in a subject illustratively including expression vectors encoding NGAL Toll like receptor 2 TLR2 ligands Toll like receptor 3 TLR3 ligands activators of NFkB leukotriene B4 cholesterol oleate and IL 17. The term analog of an NGAL stimulator refers to structural variants of NGAL stimulators that are functional to increase NGAL in a subject.

A substance effective to produce a therapeutic effect of NGAL in a subject includes an NGAL receptor agonist. The term NGAL receptor agonist refers to a substance that interacts with a NGAL receptor and enhances or increases a function of the NGAL receptor. The term NGAL receptor agonist encompasses both full and partial NGAL receptor agonists.

The term Toll like receptor 2 ligand refers to a substance that interacts with a Toll like receptor 2 and enhances or increases a function of the Toll like receptor 2. The term Toll like receptor 2 ligand encompasses both full and partial Toll like receptor 2 agonists.

The term Toll like receptor 3 ligand refers to a substance that interacts with a Toll like receptor 3 and enhances or increases a function of the Toll like receptor 3. The term Toll like receptor 3 ligand encompasses both full and partial Toll like receptor 3 agonists.

The term activator of NF B refers to a substance that increases activity of NFkB to stimulate transcription of NGAL. Non limiting examples of substances that are activators of NFkB are IL1 beta and TNF alpha.

In embodiments of methods and compositions of the present invention a stimulator of NGAL expression is an NGAL ligand a TLR2 ligand TLR3 ligand or NFkB activator. A combination of any two or more substances selected from a TLR2 ligand a TLR3 ligand and a NFkB activator can be used in embodiments of methods and compositions of the present invention.

In embodiments of methods and compositions of the present invention an NGAL ligand a TLR2 ligand TLR3 ligand or NFkB activator is a small molecule stimulator of NGAL expression. Small molecule stimulators of NGAL expression such as NGAL ligands TLR2 ligands TLR3 ligands and NFkB activators are identified by screening of substances in an assay to determine an effect of a putative stimulator on NGAL expression. For example naturally occurring or synthetic organic or inorganic substances having a molecular mass in the range of about 50 3000 Daltons more preferably having a molecular mass in the range of about 100 2000 Daltons and still more preferably having a molecular mass in the range of about 300 700 Daltons. Exemplary assays to identify small molecule stimulators of NGAL expression include contacting a cell which naturally or recombinantly expresses an NGAL receptor TLR2 TLR3 and or NFkB with one or more putative small molecule stimulators and detecting a change in NGAL expression compared to untreated cells. Methods for detection of change in expression of a selected nucleic acid or protein are well known in the art illustratively including Northern blot RNAse protection RT PCR and immunoassays. The term stimulator of expression refers to an increase in transcription and or translation which increased levels and or activity of NGAL.

The terms treating and treatment used to refer to treatment of a retinoid responsive condition in a subject includes preventing inhibiting or ameliorating the retinoid responsive condition in a subject such as slowing progression of the condition and or reducing or ameliorating a sign or symptom of the condition.

A subject treated according to methods and using compositions of the present invention can be mammalian or non mammalian. Humans are preferred subjects treated according to methods and using compositions of the present invention and a mammalian subject can be any mammal including but not limited to a non human primate a rodent such as a mouse rat or guinea pig a domesticated pet such as a cat or dog a horse cow pig sheep goat or rabbit. A non mammalian subject can be any non mammal including but not limited to fish and a bird such as a duck goose chicken or turkey.

In a particular embodiment of the present invention a method of treating acne in a subject is provided which includes administering a therapeutically effective amount of NGAL an NGAL analog an NGAL stimulator or an analog of an NGAL stimulator to a subject having acne.

A therapeutically effective amount is an amount which produces a desired physiologic or pharmacologic effect in a subject prevents or ameliorates a condition being treated in the subject. For example a therapeutically effective amount is an amount which reduces or eliminates a sign or symptom of a retinoid responsive condition being treated in the subject.

Suitable dosages ranges of NGAL an NGAL analog an NGAL stimulator or an analog of an NGAL stimulator depend on various factors such as the age of the subject the severity and type of condition being treated in the subject the general condition of the subject the route and form of administration of the composition being administered and the particular composition administered. One of ordinary skill in the art will be able to ascertain a therapeutically effective amount without undue experimentation in view of the present disclosure and what is known in the art.

Administration of NGAL an NGAL analog an NGAL stimulator or an analog of an NGAL stimulator according to embodiments of a method of the present invention includes administration according to a dosage regimen to produce a desired response. For example one or more dosage units of NGAL an NGAL analog an NGAL stimulator or an analog of an NGAL stimulator is administered to a subject at one time in particular embodiments. A suitable schedule for administration of doses depends on several factors including age weight gender medical history and health status of the subject type of composition used and route of administration for example. One of skill in the art is able to readily determine a dose and schedule of administration for a particular subject.

Embodiments of the present invention optionally include administration of a pharmacologically active agent in addition to NGAL an NGAL analog an NGAL stimulator or an analog of an NGAL stimulator. Non limiting examples of pharmacologically active agents administered in addition to NGAL an NGAL analog an NGAL stimulator or an analog of an NGAL stimulator in combination or separately according to embodiments of methods of the present invention include antibiotics antivirals antineoplastic agents analgesics antipyretics antidepressants antipsychotics anticancer agents antihistamines anti osteoporosis agents anti osteonecrosis agents antiinflammatory agents anxiolytics chemotherapeutic agents diuretics growth factors hormones non steroidal anti inflammatory agents and vasoactive agents.

A pharmaceutically acceptable carrier can be included in a composition including NGAL an NGAL analog an NGAL stimulator or an analog of an NGAL stimulator. A pharmaceutically acceptable carrier is substantially non toxic to the subject in amounts administered and has substantially no deleterious effects on any active component of a composition in which it is included.

The NGAL an NGAL analog an NGAL stimulator or an analog of an NGAL stimulator is formulated for topical local and or systemic administration to the subject.

Methods according to embodiments of the present invention include administration of NGAL an NGAL analog an NGAL stimulator or an analog of an NGAL stimulator as pharmaceutical formulations including those suitable for oral rectal nasal pulmonary epidural ocular otic intraarterial intracardiac intracerebroventricular intracranial intradermal intravenous intramuscular intraperitoneal intraosseous intrathecal intravesical subcutaneous topical transdermal and transmucosal such as by sublingual buccal vaginal and inhalational routes of administration.

A pharmaceutical formulation of NGAL an NGAL analog an NGAL stimulator or an analog of an NGAL stimulator according to embodiments of the present invention is in any dosage form suitable for administration to a subject illustratively including solid semi solid and liquid dosage forms such as tablets capsules powders granules suppositories pills solutions suspensions ointments lotions creams gels pastes sprays and aerosols.

Liposomes and emulsions are well known types of pharmaceutical formulations that can be used to deliver a pharmaceutical agent particularly a hydrophobic pharmaceutical agent. In embodiments of the present invention liposomes are particles typically produced as a unilammellar bilayer or a multilammellar bilayer of amphipathic molecules enclosing an aqueous interior. Liposomes can include any type of amphipathic materials compatible with a composition to be delivered illustratively including naturally occurring lipids synthetic lipids and combinations thereof.

A pharmaceutical formulation of a composition of the present invention can include a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The term pharmaceutically acceptable carrier refers to a carrier which is suitable for use in a subject without undue toxicity or irritation to the subject and which is compatible with other ingredients included in a pharmaceutical composition. Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers methods for making pharmaceutical compositions and various dosage forms as well as modes of administration are well known in the art for example as detailed in Pharmaceutical Dosage Forms Tablets eds. H. A. Lieberman et al. New York Marcel Dekker Inc. 1989 and in L. V. Allen Jr. et al. Ansel s Pharmaceutical Dosage Forms and Drug Delivery Systems 8th Ed. Philadelphia Pa. Lippincott Williams Wilkins 2004 A. R. Gennaro Remington The Science and Practice of Pharmacy Lippincott Williams Wilkins 21st ed. 2005 particularly chapter 89 and J. G. Hardman et al. Goodman Gilman s The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics McGraw Hill Professional 10th ed. 2001.

A solid dosage form for administration or for suspension in a liquid prior to administration illustratively includes capsules tablets powders and granules. In such solid dosage forms one or more active agents is admixed with at least one carrier illustratively including a buffer such as for example sodium citrate or an alkali metal phosphate illustratively including sodium phosphates potassium phosphates and calcium phosphates a filler such as for example starch lactose sucrose glucose mannitol and silicic acid a binder such as for example carboxymethylcellulose alignates gelatin polyvinylpyrrolidone sucrose and acacia a humectant such as for example glycerol a disintegrating agent such as for example agar agar calcium carbonate plant starches such as potato or tapioca starch alginic acid certain complex silicates and sodium carbonate a solution retarder such as for example paraffin an absorption accelerator such as for example a quaternary ammonium compound a wetting agent such as for example cetyl alcohol glycerol monostearate and a glycol an adsorbent such as for example kaolin and bentonite a lubricant such as for example talc calcium stearate magnesium stearate a solid polyethylene glycol or sodium lauryl sulfate a preservative such as an antibacterial agent and an antifungal agent including for example sorbic acid gentamycin and phenol and a stabilizer such as for example sucrose EDTA EGTA and an antioxidant.

Solid dosage forms optionally include a coating such as an enteric coating. The enteric coating is typically a polymeric material. Preferred enteric coating materials have the characteristics of being bioerodible gradually hydrolyzable and or gradually water soluble polymers. The amount of coating material applied to a solid dosage generally dictates the time interval between ingestion and drug release. A coating is applied having a thickness such that the entire coating does not dissolve in the gastrointestinal fluids at pH below 3 associated with stomach acids yet dissolves above pH 3 in the small intestine environment. It is expected that any anionic polymer exhibiting a pH dependent solubility profile is readily used as an enteric coating in the practice of the present invention to achieve delivery of the active agent to the lower gastrointestinal tract. The selection of the specific enteric coating material depends on properties such as resistance to disintegration in the stomach impermeability to gastric fluids and active agent diffusion while in the stomach ability to dissipate at the target intestine site physical and chemical stability during storage non toxicity and ease of application.

Suitable enteric coating materials illustratively include cellulosic polymers such as hydroxypropyl cellulose hydroxyethyl cellulose hydroxypropyl methyl cellulose methyl cellulose ethyl cellulose cellulose acetate cellulose acetate phthalate cellulose acetate trimellitate hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose phthalate hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose succinate and carboxymethylcellulose sodium acrylic acid polymers and copolymers preferably formed from acrylic acid methacrylic acid methyl acrylate ammonium methylacrylate ethyl acrylate methyl methacrylate and or ethyl vinyl polymers and copolymers such as polyvinyl pyrrolidone polyvinyl acetate polyvinylacetate phthalate vinylacetate crotonic acid copolymer and ethylene vinyl acetate copolymers shellac and combinations thereof. A particular enteric coating material includes acrylic acid polymers and copolymers described for example U.S. Pat. No. 6 136 345.

The enteric coating optionally contains a plasticizer to prevent the formation of pores and cracks that allow the penetration of the gastric fluids into the solid dosage form. Suitable plasticizers illustratively include triethyl citrate Citroflex 2 triacetin glyceryl triacetate acetyl triethyl citrate Citroflec A2 Carbowax 400 polyethylene glycol 400 diethyl phthalate tributyl citrate acetylated monoglycerides glycerol fatty acid esters propylene glycol and dibutyl phthalate. In particular a coating composed of an anionic carboxylic acrylic polymer typically contains approximately 10 to 25 by weight of a plasticizer particularly dibutyl phthalate polyethylene glycol triethyl citrate and triacetin. The coating can also contain other coating excipients such as detackifiers antifoaming agents lubricants e.g. magnesium stearate and stabilizers e.g. hydroxypropylcellulose acids or bases to solubilize or disperse the coating material and to improve coating performance and the coated product.

Liquid dosage forms for oral administration include one or more active agents and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier formulated as an emulsion solution suspension syrup or elixir. A liquid dosage form of a composition of the present invention may include a colorant a stabilizer a wetting agent an emulsifying agent a suspending agent a sweetener a flavoring or a perfuming agent.

For example a composition for parenteral administration may be formulated as an injectable liquid. Examples of suitable aqueous and nonaqueous carriers include water ethanol polyols such as propylene glycol polyethylene glycol glycerol and the like suitable mixtures thereof vegetable oils such as olive oil and injectable organic esters such as ethyloleate. Proper fluidity can be maintained for example by the use of a coating such as lecithin by the maintenance of a desirable particle size in the case of dispersions and or by the use of a surfactant such as sodium lauryl sulfate. A stabilizer is optionally included such as for example sucrose EDTA EGTA and an antioxidant.

For topical administration a composition can be formulated for administration to the skin such as for local effect and or as a patch formulation for transdermal delivery. Pharmaceutical formulations suitable for topical administration include for example ointments lotions creams gels pastes sprays and powders. Ointments lotions creams gels and pastes can include in addition to one or more active agents a base such as an absorption base water removable base water soluble base or oleaginous base and excipients such as a thickening agent a gelling agent a colorant a stabilizer an emulsifying agent a suspending agent a sweetener a flavoring or a perfuming agent.

Transdermal formulations can include percutaneous absorption enhancers such as acetone azone dimethyl acetamide dimethyl formamide dimethyl sulfoxide ethanol oleic acid polyethylene glycol propylene glycol and sodium lauryl sulfate. Ionotophoresis and or sonophoresis can be used to enhance transdermal delivery.

Powders and sprays for topical administration of one or more active agents can include excipients such as talc lactose and one or more silicic acids. Sprays can include a pharmaceutical propellant such as a fluorinated hydrocarbon propellant carbon dioxide or a suitable gas. Alternatively a spray can be delivered from a pump style spray device which does not require a propellant. A spray device delivers a metered dose of a composition contained therein for example using a valve for regulation of a delivered amount.

Opthalmic formulations of one or more active agents can include ingredients such as a preservative a buffer and a thickening agent.

Further embodiments of the present invention include a method of treating acne in a subject which includes stimulating NGAL expression in a subject having acne. For example NGAL expression is stimulated by administration of a transcription factor which upregulates transcription of a gene encoding NGAL and or by administration of a nucleic acid encoding NGAL to the subject. Stimulators of NGAL expression illustratively include leukotriene B4 and cholesterol oleate. IL 17 or activators of NF B is a further example of a stimulator of NGAL expression. Toll like receptor 2 TLR2 ligands and Toll like receptor 3 TLR3 ligands are stimulators of NGAL expression and one or more TLR ligands and or one or more TLR3 ligands are administered to treat acne in a subject according to embodiments of the present invention.

Methods of inhibiting are provided by embodiments of the present invention which include administering NGAL an NGAL analog an NGAL stimulator or an analog of an NGAL stimulator to a subject colonized with . In particular embodiments of the present invention administration includes contacting a bacterium with NGAL and or a functional analog of NGAL. The skilled artisan will recognize that detecting colonization in a subject and detecting inhibition by methods and compositions according to the present invention can be achieved using well known assay methods.

In preferred embodiments the bacterium is in or on a human subject. The NGAL an NGAL analog an NGAL stimulator or an analog of an NGAL stimulator is administered to the human subject by a topical local and or systemic route. Methods of inhibiting in a subject are useful in treatment of conditions associated with colonization such as acne and or rosacea for example.

In further embodiments of the present invention methods of treating a retinoid responsive condition in a subject are described which include administering a therapeutically effective amount of NGAL an NGAL analog an NGAL stimulator or an analog of an NGAL stimulator to a subject having a retinoid responsive condition. Retinoid responsive conditions illustratively include acne rosacea psoriasis promyelocytic leukemia and neuroblastoma.

In addition to NGAL methods and compositions of the present invention optionally include methods and compositions relating to genes described herein as regulated by isotretinoin such as those listed in Tables II and III.

A method of treating a retinoid responsive condition in a subject is provided according to embodiments of the present invention which includes administering a therapeutically effective amount of a Toll like receptor 2 ligand to a subject having a retinoid responsive condition.

In particular embodiments the therapeutically effective amount of a Toll like receptor 2 ligand is sufficient to increase NGAL and or to increase IL 8 in the subject.

In particular embodiments the retinoid responsive condition is acne. Optionally the Toll like receptor 2 ligand is administered to an area of the skin of the subject affected by or at risk of being affected by acne.

Pam3CSK4 i.e. N Palmitoyl S 2 3 bis palmitoyloxy 2RS propyl R cysteinyl S seryl S lysyl S lysyl S lysyl S lysine 3HCl is an example of a TLR2 agonist included in embodiments of methods and compositions of the present invention.

A pharmaceutically acceptable carrier can be included in a composition including a Toll like receptor 2 ligand.

The Toll like receptor 2 ligand is formulated for topical local and or systemic administration to the subject according to particular embodiments of methods and compositions of the present invention.

A method of treating a retinoid responsive condition in a subject is provided according to embodiments of the present invention which includes administering a therapeutically effective amount of a Toll like receptor 3 ligand to a subject having a retinoid responsive condition.

In particular embodiments the therapeutically effective amount of a Toll like receptor 3 ligand is sufficient to increase NGAL in the subject.

In particular embodiments the retinoid responsive condition is acne. Optionally the Toll like receptor 3 ligand is administered to an area of the skin of the subject affected by or at risk of being affected by acne.

Polyinosinic polycytidylic acid Poly I C is an example of a TLR3 agonist included in embodiments of methods and compositions of the present invention.

A pharmaceutically acceptable carrier can be included in a composition including a Toll like receptor 3 ligand.

The Toll like receptor 3 ligand is formulated for topical local and or systemic administration to the subject according to particular embodiments of methods and compositions of the present invention.

Methods of identifying NGAL analogs are provided by embodiments of the present invention which include administering a test compound to a cell sensitive to 13 cis retinoic acid induced apoptosis to produce a treated cell and assaying the treated cell for a marker of apoptosis and or endogenous production of NGAL. A test compound which is a functional analog of NGAL is ineffective to induce the marker of apoptosis in absence of a functional NGAL receptor in the treated cell in particular embodiments of inventive methods.

Embodiments of inventive compositions and methods are illustrated in the following examples. These examples are provided for illustrative purposes and are not considered limitations on the scope of inventive compositions and methods.

Patients were recruited to have skin biopsies of their upper backs at baseline and after one week of treatment with 13 cis RA. A total of 7 patients that were prescribed isotretinoin by their dermatologist for their severe acne were enrolled in the study after signing informed consent forms. Information regarding patient age sex the time of biopsy and the dose of isotretinoin that patients were receiving at the time of their second biopsy are presented in Table I.

All protocols were approved by the Institutional Review Board of The Pennsylvania State University College of Medicine and were conducted according to the principles outlined in the Declaration of Helsinki. All subjects gave informed consent. Subjects included males and females ages 14 to 40 years who were scheduled by their dermatologist to receive treatment with 13 cis RA isotretinoin brand not noted for severe acne. All aspects of the patients treatment with 13 cis RA apart from the skin biopsies were standard of care and were not part of this research. Exclusion criteria included patients with underlying medical conditions requiring treatment with systemic medications that might interfere with the gene array analysis.

Seven patients had 5 mm punch biopsies of skin from the upper back taken at baseline and again at day 7 of treatment. Biopsies were taken from non inflammed skin in areas apart from acne lesions. Biopsies were placed on ice and immediately transferred to the laboratory where they were trimmed of fat and a small section of each biopsy was taken and paraffin embedded for histology and immunohistochemistry. The remaining portion of the biopsy was flash frozen in liquid nitrogen and used for total RNA isolation.

Hematoxylin and eosin staining was performed on sections of patient skin obtained from biopsies of skin from the upper back taken at baseline and at one week of treatment. A total of 17 sections at baseline and 19 sections at one week taken from 6 patients were analyzed using image analysis software.

Images were captured using a Spot digital camera Diagnostic Instruments Inc. and measurements were obtained with Image Pro Plus Imaging Software version 3.0 after spatial calibration with a micrometer slide under the 10 objective. All areas of the sebaceous gland were circled using a free hand measuring tool and the total area of the sebaceous gland was calculated in each section from the baseline and the one week biopsies. The average area for each distinct sebaceous gland was calculated from sections analyzed. An ANOVA Single Factor statistical test 0.05 was performed to look for significant differences in sebaceous gland area before and after one week of treatment.

At baseline sebaceous glands were characteristically large and multi lobular. Although changes in architecture were not obvious at one week of isotretinoin treatment an early decrease in the overall size of the sebaceous glands was suggested. The mean area of sebaceous glands in the baseline samples was 0.23 0.09 mm mean SEM compared to 0.12 0.02 mmin the one week samples which was not significant using a paired t test p 0.16 data not shown .

Skin sections were obtained from paraffin blocks of 7 patients sampled at baseline and one week of isotretinoin. A TUNEL peroxidase assay followed by counter staining with hematoxylin was performed on skin biopsies obtained from patients at baseline and at one week of 13 cis RA therapy n 6 pairs of samples .

In this procedure sections of baseline and post treatment biopsies from 7 patients were subjected to deparaffinization rehydration and permeabilization with 0.1 Triton X 0.1 sodium citrate in phosphate buffered saline. Sections were subjected to In Situ Cell Death Detection Peroxidase kit Roche Diagnostics Indianapolis Ind. followed by counter staining with hematoxylin. DNase I treatment of positive and negative controls without terminal transferase were included as assay controls according to manufacturer s instructions. At least 2 baseline and one week skin sections were analyzed from every patient. Patient 7 was omitted from the analysis as no sebaceous glands were found in baseline biopsy sections. Results were quantified by counting positive stained cells total cells in sebaceous glands. Data represents mean SD n 6 patients paired t test was used for statistical analysis and considered significant if p

A 4 fold increase in the percentage of TUNEL positive cells was noted within the sebaceous gland at one week of therapy compared to baseline 45.9 11.9 vs. 13.9 6 TUNEL positive cells p 0.005 paired t test 0.05 . shows representative sections from Patient 4 taken at baseline and at one week of isotretinoin treatment. NC negative control which consists of sections from a skin specimen treated with DNase I and processed without terminal transferase enzyme. PC positive control which consists of sections from a skin specimen treated with DNase I and subjected to the full TUNEL assay. Total magnification 400 .

TUNEL staining was strongest in the nuclei of sebocytes in the basal layer of the sebaceous gland and in early differentiated sebocytes adjacent to the basal layer arrows. Apoptosis was selective for the sebaceous gland as no apoptosis was detected within the epidermis.

Gene array expression analysis was performed on patient skin biopsies at baseline and one week of isotretinoin therapy. Gene expression analysis of skin from patients treated with 13 cis RA revealed significant increases in genes encoding calcium binding proteins retinoid signaling molecules solute carriers and serine proteases.

In this procedure total RNA was isolated from skin biopsies and DNase treated using the RNeasy Fibrous Tissue Kit Qiagen Inc. Valencia Calif. . Approximately 2 g of total RNA from each sample was used to generate double stranded cDNA using a T7 oligo dT primer. Biotinylated cRNA produced through in vitro transcription was fragmented and hybridized to an Affymetrix human U133A 2.0 microarray for one week biopsies. The arrays were processed on a GeneChip Fluidics Station 450 and scanned on an Affymetrix GeneChip Scanner Santa Clara Calif. . Expression signals were normalized as previously described 47 60 61 . Significant gene expression alterations were identified using Significance Analysis of Microarrays SAM computer software 62 . SAM controls the false positives resulting from multiple comparisons through controlling the false discovery rate FDR 63 . FUR is defined as the proportion of false positive genes among all genes that are considered significant. The results of these array analyses have been submitted to the National Center for Biotechnology Information Gene Expression Omnibus database under the accession number GSE10434. This is considered a super series and contains both the 1 week patient data and the cell culture model SEB 1 data described below. For the 1 week data alone the accession number is GSE10432. For the SEB 1 data alone GSE10433.

Array data was not generated for patient 3 due to insufficient quantity of RNA. Using a false discovery rate FDR of 0.05 that corresponds to a 5 chance of false positive gene changes 38 genes were significantly up regulated and 5 genes were significantly down regulated by 13 cis RA when compared to baseline. Table II and Tables V and VI for a full listing of significantly changed genes . LCN2 was among the most highly up regulated genes.

Gene expression in SEB 1 sebocytes treated with 13 cis RA is similar to profile the observed in human skin.

To identify sebocyte specific gene changes induced by 13 cis RA array analysis was performed in SEB 1 sebocytes on three samples treated with 0.1 micromolar 13 cis RA and three samples treated with vehicle.

The SEB 1 human sebocyte cell line was generated by transfection of secondary sebocytes with SV40 Large T antigen and was cultured in standard culture medium as previously described 59 . 13 cis RA R 3255 was purchased through SIGMA St. Louis Mo. . 10 mM Stock solutions of 13 cis RA dissolved in ethanol were handled under dimmed yellow light and stored under Ngas at 20 C. until use. Purified recombinant human NGA L protein amino acids 21 198 was purchased from R D Systems Minneapolis Minn. ready to use and was stored at 20 C. until needed. Stock solutions were diluted to desired concentrations in standard sebocyte culture medium.

Total RNA was isolated from SEB 1 sebocytes treated with 0.1 M 13 cis RA or vehicle alone 0.001 ethanol in three independent samples using the RNeasy kit Qiagen Inc. Valencia Calif. . Approximately 2 g of total RNA from each sample was used to generate double stranded cDNA using a T7 oligo dT primer. Biotinylated cRNA produced through in vitro transcription was fragmented and hybridized to an U95Av2 microarray for SEB 1 sebocytes. The arrays were processed on a GeneChip Fluidics Station 450 and scanned on an Affymetrix GeneChip Scanner Santa Clara. Calif. . Expression signals were normalized as previously described 47 60 61 . Significant gene expression alterations were identified using Significance Analysis of Microarrays SAM computer software 62 . SAM controls the false positives resulting from multiple comparisons through controlling the false discovery rate FUR 63 . FDR is defined as the proportion of false positive genes among all genes that are considered significant.

A total of 85 genes 78 different genes were significantly influenced by 13 cis RA 58 were upregulated and 27 were down regulated. Select genes whose expression was significantly changed genes are listed in Table III. See Tables V and VI for the full listing of significantly changed genes. As in the patient samples LCN2 and the tumor suppressor TIG1 demonstrated the greatest changes in gene expression.

QPCR analyses showed that the direction and magnitude of the change in expression for the selected genes were similar to those observed with the gene array analyses and verified siRNA knockdown and immunoblotting experiments.

Applied Biosystems Assays on Demand Taqman Universal PCR Master Mix primer probe sets and ABI s 7900HT Fast Real Time PCR System with 384 well plate block module were used according to manufacturer s instructions Applied Biosystems Foster City Calif. . Integrity of isolated RNA was verified by agarose gel electrophoresis. cDNA was generated from 1 g of total RNA primed with oligo dT using the Superscript First Strand Synthesis System for RT PCR Invitrogen Carlsbad Calif. . Diluted cDNA from the one week samples were run for the reference gene TATA binding protein TBP and genes of interest lipocalin 2 LCN2 RARRES1 S100A7 SERPINA3 and PLA2G7. For gene array verification 8 independent samples of SEB 1 sebocytes treated with 0.1 M 13 cis RA or vehicle alone for 72 hours were analyzed. Genes of interest included LCN2 RARRES1 insulin like growth factor binding protein 3 IGFBP 3 GATA3 ZBTB16 and potential LCN2 cell surface receptor SLC22A17 . Expression of TBP GAPDH and LCN2 was analyzed in 6 independent SEB 1 samples for the siRNA knockdown experiments. SEB 1 sebocytes treated with increasing concentrations of ATRA n 5 were analyzed for the reference gene TBP and LCN2. In all experiments assay controls included samples omitting reverse transcriptase enzyme as well as samples without cDNA. Data was analyzed using the Relative Expression Software Tool REST XL version 1 software program 64 with efficiency correction and a p value 

Sufficient RNA was available from 5 of 7 patients all but Patients 3 and 4 to verify gene expression changes by QPCR for LCN2 retinoic acid receptor responder 1 RARRES1 TIG1 psoriasin S100A7 serine protease inhibitor A3 SERPINA3 and phospholipase A2 group 7 platelet activating factor acetyl hydrolase PLA2G7 . shows comparison of array analysis and QPCR on RNA obtained from patient skin biopsies at baseline and one week of 13 cis RA treatment. Data represent the mean SEM of the fold change in gene expression as determined by QPCR in 5 subjects compared to array analysis performed in 6 subjects.

For SEB 1 sebocytes gene array expression changes were verified by QPCR for LCN2 TIG1 insulin like growth factor binding protein 3 IGFBP3 GATA transcription factor 3 GATA3 and ZBTB16 zinc finger and BTB domain containing 16. shows comparison of array analysis and QPCR on RNA obtained from SEB 1 sebocytes incubated for 72 hours in the presence or absence of 13 cis RA. Data represent the mean SEM of the fold change in gene expression as determined by QPCR in 8 samples compared to array analysis performed in 3 samples. QPCR results were analyzed by REST XL software program and p

Patient skin biopsies that were taken at baseline and at one week of isotretinoin therapy were used to assess NGAL expression and localization using immunohistochemistry.

In each patient NGAL expression was detected specifically within the basal layer of the sebaceous gland and upper sebaceous duct in sections from skin taken at one week of therapy as shown in . NGAL expression was not noted within the epidermis. This pattern of NGAL expression is comparable to the pattern of TUNEL positive cells after isotretinoin treatment. NGAL immunoreactivity and TUNEL positive cells are both present within the basal layer of the sebaceous gland and are absent from the epidermis.

In general NGAL expression is increased after one week of isotretinoin treatment although the amount of increase varied among the patients as shown in Table IV. Patient 7 was omitted from the analysis because no sebaceous glands were captured in the baseline biopsy sections. In 2 out of the 6 patients Patients 4 and 6 the only females in the study a minimal increase in NGAL staining was noted. Of the 6 patients examined only one had NGAL expression in sebaceous glands at baseline see Table IV.

The expression of NGAL within SEB 1 sebocytes was verified by QPCR and western blotting showing that 13 cis RA and ATRA increase LCN2 mRNA and NGAL protein expression in SEB 1 sebocytes.

LCN2 mRNA expression was verified by QPCR after 48 hours of retinoid treatment. Data represent mean SEM of the fold change in gene expression as determined by QPCR of 5 independent samples. Statistical analysis was performed with REST XL software program and considered significant if p

For Western blotting mouse monoclonal antibody to lipocalin 2 NGAL was obtained from Abeam Inc. Cambridge Mass. . The 24p3R NGAL receptor affinity purified antibody positive HEK 293 cell lysate and negative T47D cell lysate controls were kindly provided by Dr. Michael Green University of Massachusetts Medical School . GAPDH 2118 Cleaved caspase 3 9664 actin 4967 and anti rabbit horseradish peroxidase HRP linked secondary antibodies 7074 were purchased from Cell Signaling Technology Beverly Mass. . Secondary Anti mouse HRP antibody was purchased from Santa Cruz Biotechnology Inc. Santa Cruz Calif. .

SEB 1 sebocytes passages 22 28 were in standard culture medium until 50 75 confluent. Treatments of 13 cis RA 0.1 nM 1 nM 10 nM 0.1 M or 1 M or ethanol vehicle 0.01 or less were applied for 48 or 72 hours. In parallel studies identical concentrations of all trans retinoic acid ATRA were applied for 72 hours. In all experiments each plate was considered an independent sample and total protein was collected. Blots were incubated with appropriate primary and secondary antibodies followed by densitometry. Each experiment was repeated a minimum of 3 independent times. Data was analyzed using a paired t test and results were considered significant if p

As shown in expression of LCN2 mRNA was detected after 48 hours of 13 cis RA treatment. 13 cis RA concentrations of 1 nM and greater significantly increased LCN2 mRNA levels to approximately 6 fold with micromolar concentrations when compared to control.

Protein expression was verified by western blot at 72 hours of retinoid treatment. Blots were incubated with primary antibody to NGAL as well as actin as a loading control. Blots were analyzed by densitometry and normalized to actin. The graph represents normalized fold change values mean SEM relative to control for a minimum of 3 independent blots. Statistical analysis was performed with paired t test p

The first 1000 base pairs of the LCN2 promoter were scanned for retinoic acid response elements RAREs using the predefined consensus sequences within the Transfac database through the Transcription Element Search System TESS and reveals the presence of both RAR and RXR binding sites. Prior studies suggest that 13 cis RA acts as a reservoir of ATRA and that after isomerization to ATRA acts via binding nuclear retinoic acid receptors 12 . Although in other studies retinoid receptor independent modulation of signaling pathways by ATRA such as binding to PKC have also been reported 13 14 .

To address this issue SEB 1 sebocytes were treated with increasing concentrations of ATRA in parallel studies and examined for expression of LCN2 mRNA and NGAL protein. QPCR and immunoblotting show that NGAL expression also increased in a dose dependent manner with ATRA when compared to control. The level of NGAL expression induced by ATRA is less than that with 13 cis RA 7 fold vs. 10 fold but the difference between ATRA and 13 cis RA was not significant see .

SEB 1 sebocytes were treated with increasing concentrations of purified recombinant human NGAL rhNGAL protein and a TUNEL assay was performed.

For the TUNEL assay SEB 1 sebocytes passage 22 28 were cultured in 12 well plates in standard medium until approximately 30 40 confluent. Wells were rinsed with phosphate buffered saline PBS and treated in duplicate with vehicle control 1 pg mL 10 pg mL 100 pg mL 1 ng mL or 10 ng mL of recombinant human NGAL R D Systems Minneapolis Minn. or human actin negative control Cytoskeleton Denver Colo. protein for 24 hours. In all experiments each well was considered one sample Samples were prepared by manufacturer s instructions for In Situ Cell Death Detection Kit Fluorescein Roche Diagnostics Indianapolis. Ind. DNase I treatment of positive and negative controls without terminal transferase were included as assay controls according to manufacturer s instructions. Results were analyzed and quantified by counting positive stained cells per total number of cells in 3 representative fields per well for each of the treatments done in duplicate. Four independent rhNGAL experiments were performed whereas treatment with actin was performed once. Statistical analyses were performed between control and each treatment concentration using ANOVA Two Factor with Replication and considered significant if p

As noted above SEB 1 sebocytes were treated with vehicle as a control 1 pg mL 10 pg mL 100 pg mL 1 ng mL or 10 ng mL of purified recombinant human NGAL protein R D Systems or the same concentrations of human actin protein for 24 hours. After 24 hours of treatment with NGAL the percentage of TUNEL positive cells in SEB 1 sebocytes was significantly increased to a maximum of approximately 35 using 1 ng mL rhNGAL as shown in .

To test the hypothesis that NGAL mediates the apoptotic effect of 13 cis RA on sebcoytes siRNA to LCN2 is utilized in the presence of 13 cis RA and the effect on apoptosis using western blotting for cleaved caspase 3 the activated form of caspase 3 is examined.

Optimization of the appropriate nucleofection solution and program was carried out according to manufacturer s instructions using the Cell Line Optimization Nucleofector Kit with 2 g of pgmaxGFP DNA in combination with the highest efficiency GFP expression and lowest mortality. Program T 20 with solution T was chosen for future experiments. Efficiency of nucleofection was determined by GFP expression quantified by flow cytometry with mock nucleofected SEB 1 sebocyte controls. Very high levels of GFP expression 87 90 73 and 57 were detected at 24 48 72 and 96 hours post nucleofection respectively.

Using ON TARGETplus Smartpool Human LCN2 Human GAPDH and siCONTROL siRNA duplex oligonucleotides Dharmacon Research Lafayette Colo. nucleofection was performed as suggested by Dharmacon and Amaxa Biosystems. SEB 1 sebocytes 2 10cells per 100 microliter reaction were nucleofected with 1 g siCONTROL GAPDH or LCN2 siRNA. 13 cis RA 0.1 M was added 24 hours post nucleofection. Extent of siRNA knockdown of gene expression was verified by QPCR and western blotting for LCN2 NGAL and GAPDH at various time points after 13 cis RA treatment. Involvement of LCN2 NGAL in mediating 13 cis RA induced apoptosis was assessed by cleaved caspase 3 protein expression using western blotting.

QPCR results shows in demonstrate that the expression of LCN2 mRNA was successfully decreased 15 fold 93 by the siRNA compared to siCONTROL in SEB 1 cells that were treated for 48 hours with 13 cis RA. shows QPCR analysis of LCN2 and GAPDH mRNA levels at 48 hours of 0.1 M 13 cis RA treatment. The expression of LCN2 mRNA was successfully decreased 15 fold by the LCN2 siRNA compared to siCONTROL whereas expression of GAPDH was minimally affected by siRNA to LCN2. GAPDH mRNA expression was decreased 4 fold by the specific GAPDH siRNA when compared to siCONTROL whereas siRNA to GAPDH had minimal effects on expression of mRNA for LCN2. Data represent mean SEM n 6. p

After confirming successful inhibition of LCN2 and NGAL expression by siRNA the effect of LCN2 on apoptosis was determined.

Under siRNA conditions described for immunoblotting revealed that siRNA to LCN2 decreases expression of cleaved caspase 3 by approximately 5 fold compared to siRNA control. siRNA to LCN2 in the presence of 13 cis RA decreased expression of cleaved caspase 3 to approximately 20 of control levels corresponding to a 5 fold reduction as indicated in .

Blots in were incubated with primary antibodies to cleaved caspase 3 as well as actin as a loading control to normalize densitometry values. Three independent scrambled siCONTROL SCRAM and LCN2 western blots are shown. p17 and p19 are the cleaved or active fragments of caspase 3. The graph in represents the normalized expression of cleaved caspase 3 from 5 independent western blots statistical analysis was performed with paired t test mean SEM p

A cell surface receptor for the murine homolog to NGAL 24p3 was identified in murine pro B lymphocytic FL5.12 cells. The presence of this receptor 24p3R is believed to be responsible for cell specific susceptibility to apoptosis 6 . Based on sequence homology the human homolog of 24p3R is predicted to be the solute carrier member SLC22A17 6 . Expression of SLC22A17 mRNA was detected in SEB 1 sebocytes by QPCR analysis data not shown .

24p3R NGAL receptor affinity purified antibody 6 was used. SEB 1 sebocytes were cultured and fixed according to standard procedures followed by overnight incubation with 24p3R antibody or normal rabbit IgG negative control and counterstaining with hematoxylin.

The 24p3 NGAL receptor was detected in SEB 1 sebocytes by immunohistochemistry and western blotting using an antibody to the mouse 24p3R 6 .

Western analysis confirms presence of the receptor and indicates two receptor isoforms are present in SEB 1 sebocytes high molecular weight H.M.W. and 24p3R long 24p3R L . Positive HEK 293 cell lysate and negative T47D cell lysate controls are shown in . All samples for this blot were run on the same gel but were noncontiguous. Blot shown is representative of 3 independent experiments.

SEB 1 sebocytes are pretreated with TLR2 neutralizing antibody or corresponding isotype control antibody mIgG2b for one hour prior to treatment with 30 g mL vehicle or with TLR2 antibody alone for 24 hours. An ELISA assay for NGAL is performed on culture medium and the cell lysates. Data is analyzed using a paired Student s t test n 4 p

NGAL expression increases in response to poly I C treatment in SEB 1 sebocytes. SEB 1 sebocytes are treated with 20 g mL Poly I C commercially available from Invivogen San Diego Calif. for 48 hrs. Total cell lysate is examined for NGAL expression by immunoblotting. Samples are run on same gel. shows immunoblots for NGAL and the control beta actin indicating that NGAL expression increases in response to poly I C treatment in SEB 1 sebocytes.

Any patents or publications mentioned in this specification are incorporated herein by reference to the same extent as if each individual publication is specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.

The compositions and methods described herein are presently representative of preferred embodiments exemplary and not intended as limitations on the scope of the invention. Changes therein and other uses will occur to those skilled in the art. Such changes and other uses can be made without departing from the scope of the invention as set forth in the claims.

