---

title: Computationally efficent radar processing method and sytem for SAR and GMTI on a slow moving platform
abstract: A method and system for processing radar data from a movable platform comprising passing a radar signal through a low noise amplifier; down converting the signal to a lower frequency; filtering out harmonics; sampling using A/D converter at or above Nyquist frequency; determining a scene center; performing a two stage averaging scheme of the received signals with a variable window function based upon the velocity, acceleration of the platform and scene center; coherently averaging N pulses to create an average pulse; performing an inverse Fourier transform; compensating to the scene center by multiplying by a complex exponential based upon GPS and inertial navigational system; summing the average pulses using a low pass filter; repeating the determination of an average pulse for a time period that is less than the Nyquist sample time interval to generate second average pulses; and performing a 2D inverse Fourier transform to obtain SAR image.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08207887&OS=08207887&RS=08207887
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08207887
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090623
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government. The claimed invention was made as a result of activities undertaken within the scope of a joint research agreement between the U.S. Government and the University of Florida.

The patent or application file contains at least one drawing executed in color. Copies of this patent or patent application publication with color drawing s will be provided by the Office upon request and payment of the necessary fee.

The present invention relates in general to a process and apparatus for generating imagery and in particular to generating imagery using electromagnetic waves.

Current synthetic aperture radar SAR algorithms are implemented on platforms that are moving at a constant velocity and at a high speed and require computationally intensive signal processing. Small platforms generally will not have constant velocity and cannot support computationally intensive signal processing. There exists a need for an algorithm which overcomes the problems associated with generating a SAR image or a GMTI image on a small unmanned aerial vehicle UAV robotic vehicle and or manned vehicle. Previously the problem encountered difficulties due to algorithm complexity memory limitations and DSP computations per second limitations. Small unmanned aerial vehicle UAV can provide soldiers at the platoon level with a hover and stare capability. Small unmanned air vehicle can be propelled using ducted fan technology and controlled using micro electrical sensor technology. This can also provide robotic vehicles with a way of detecting and avoiding dismounts personnel .

Aerial image radar and computer subsystems can gather and display broad and detailed information as events occur including position and tracking information on vehicles and personnel. The information is relayed in near real time to ground stations via the secure links and to other ground nodes beyond line of sight via ultra high frequency satellite communications. The communications datalink and operations and control subsystems comprise operator workstations displaying computer processed data in graphic and tabular format on video screens in order to perform surveillance intelligence communications and maintenance functions. Generally speaking radar can operate in wide area surveillance ground moving target indicator GMTI fixed target indicator FTI target classification and synthetic aperture radar SAR modes Ground moving target indicator GMTI is used to detect moving targets by essentially subtracting out images of stationary objects. Moving target are obtained using Doppler shift theory in GMTI modes. GMTI uses the frequency shift of the returned signal continuous surveillance from a long range. On an aircraft the antenna can be tilted to either side in order to develop a 120 degree field of view covering hundreds of miles. The GMTI radar will detect any moving objects of sufficient size and density such as vehicles but will not pick up stationary objects. The system SAR mode is used produce images of stationary objects. Objects with many surface angles for example a the bed of a truck will give a much better radar signature referred to a specular returns .

In accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention the SAR processing algorithm assumes that the platform is moving at a slow speed and has a constant acceleration along the flight path. The algorithm combines pulse averaging with and without motion compensations. Using the invention one can average before motion compensation or one can motion compensate and then average. The technique is adaptable for processing non uniform samples. One concept of one embodiment of the invention comprises using a variable linear window function and variable sample size which are determined by the estimated velocity and acceleration of the platform to average the radar samples in time. Generally the platforms are slow moving. Data is segmented into different windows based upon the velocity and acceleration of the platform. The window function is constructed so that the phase center of the averaged data is uniformly sampled. The matlab code demonstrates how to generate the window function as shown in Appendix 2.

These and other aspects of the embodiments of the invention will be better appreciated and understood when considered in conjunction with the following description and the accompanying drawings. It should be understood however that the following descriptions while indicating preferred embodiments of the invention and numerous specific details thereof are given by way of illustration and not of limitation. Many changes and modifications may be made within the scope of the embodiments of the invention without departing from the spirit thereof and the embodiments of the invention include all such modifications.

The present invention now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which embodiments of the invention are shown. However this invention should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. In the drawings the dimensions of objects and regions may be exaggerated for clarity. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to limit the full scope of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

It will be understood that when an element such as an object layer region or substrate is referred to as being on or extending onto another element it can be directly on or extend directly onto the other element or intervening elements may also be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly on or extending directly onto another element there are no intervening elements present. It will also be understood that when an element is referred to as being connected or coupled to another element it can be directly connected or coupled to the other element or intervening elements may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly connected or directly coupled to another element there are no intervening elements present.

It will be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements components regions layers and or sections these elements components regions layers and or sections should not be limited by these terms. For example when referring first and second photons in a photon pair these terms are only used to distinguish one element component region layer or section from another region layer or section. Thus a first element component region layer or section discussed below could be termed a second element component region layer or section without departing from the teachings of the present invention.

Furthermore relative terms such as lower or bottom and upper or top may be used herein to describe one element s relationship to other elements as illustrated in the Figures. It will be understood that relative terms are intended to encompass different orientations of the device in addition to the orientation depicted in the Figures. For example if the device in the Figures is turned over elements described as being on the lower side of other elements would then be oriented on upper sides of the other elements. The exemplary term lower can therefore encompass both an orientation of lower and upper depending of the particular orientation of the figure. Similarly if the device in one of the figures is turned over elements described as below or beneath other elements would then be oriented above the other elements. The exemplary terms below or beneath can therefore encompass both an orientation of above and below. Furthermore the term outer may be used to refer to a surface and or layer that is farthest away from a substrate.

Embodiments of the present invention are described herein with reference to cross section illustrations that are schematic illustrations of idealized embodiments of the present invention. As such variations from the shapes of the illustrations as a result for example of manufacturing techniques and or tolerances are to be expected. Thus embodiments of the present invention should not be construed as limited to the particular shapes of regions illustrated herein but are to include deviations in shapes that result for example from manufacturing. For example a region or object illustrated as a rectangular will typically have tapered rounded or curved features. Thus the regions illustrated in the figures are schematic in nature and their shapes are not intended to illustrate the precise shape of a region of a device and are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. It will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the relevant art and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

It will also be appreciated by those of skill in the art that references to a structure or feature that is disposed adjacent another feature may have portions that overlap or underlie the adjacent feature.

The simulation software modeled all the major factors that affect the performance the radar. The radar model included the effects of range component noise transmit power antenna and various noise sources. The noise in the simulation included the leakage signal phase noise thermal noise and crystal vibration effects. The electromagnetic scattering from targets and clutter were modeled as isotropic point scatterers. The performance of Range Doppler processing SAR and SAR based GMTI algorithms developed for the proposed radar were simulated and examples of the results were presented to evaluate the feasibility. Prototypes of a prototype radar design and signal processing were tested using modeling simulation and measured data providing the system architecture system analysis radar simulation and synthetic aperture radar SAR and ground moving target indicators GMTI signal processing algorithms. Computational efficient algorithms were developed and tested for generating SAR imagery and GMTI. is an illustration of a UAV.

Software was written in matlab to model the performance of the radar on a UAV platform in both a hovering and moving mode. The software included models for the radar target clutter UAV and included algorithms for range Doppler SAR and SAR based GMTI processing.

Radar is used cue other sensors on the UAV. SAR is a requirement for the proposed radar but space weight and power SWAP requirements and GMTI performance are higher priority items.

Radar simulation parameters for a linear frequency modulated continuous wave FMCW radar with homodyne demodulation and an interferometric capability in azimuth. Table 1 shows the major design specifications for the radar. The frequency response of signals output by the radar is between 125 KHz and 2.5 MHz. These signals are sampled at 10 MSPS with a 12 bit analog to digital converter ADC .

A signal processing algorithm with a two stage averaging scheme digitally reduces the antenna beamwidth and then processes the data using conventional techniques. This technique will reduce the blur in the imagery not eliminate it. Processing the data using wavefront reconstruction techniques will eliminate blurring due to approximations made in the signal processing however it is more computationally complex and was not evaluated.

The first step in both diagrams is to coherently average together the returns for several pulses six pulses were chosen. This results in a maximum phase error for a stationary point scatterer at an azimuth angle of 45 degrees of approximately eight degrees 180 pi 0.707 2 6 1 3 m s 400 e 6 s 0.0577 m . Next the results are range compressed using a fast Fourier transform FFT and further averaged. This can be performed using either of the two techniques shown in . For the technique shown in the pulses are motion compensated to the scene center range compressed using an FFT then motion compensated at each range bin of interest. For the technique shown in the pulses are immediately range compressed then the bins of interest are selected and motion compensated. Next the results for both techniques are lowpass filtered. The simplest filter to implement is an averager. This is equivalent to a rectangular window function which results in sine like spatial filter that effectively reduces the beamwidth of the antenna. The sidelobe levels can be reduced by applying other window functions such as a Hanning weighting. After the desired number of averaged range profiles is obtained a SAR image is generated by performing FFTs across the range bins of interest.

Measurements were made with available assets configured to be close to the proposed radar specifications. A description of the measurements is given in the next section. In this section results will only be presented for the simulated data.

In the radar simulation the target and clutter were modeled as point scatterers. The noise in the radar simulation included the leakage signal phase noise thermal noise and crystal vibration effects. The motion of the UAV was modeled as 3 dimensional vector with constant acceleration. The antenna beam pattern was also modeled. The motion of the targets was modeled as 2 dimensional vector with constant velocity. Table 3 shows the additional parameters used in the simulation.

Simulated SAR images were generated using the algorithm described in and the radar parameters described in tables 2 and 3 . SAR images generated with the signal processing described in are denoted in the figure captions as efficient processing and processing described in are denoted as very efficient processing . The data were also filtered with a 2 dimension Kaiser window with a Beta of 2. Simulated data consisting of the returns for 4608 chirps that were collected over a 5.5 meter interval then processed. This results in SAR images with a resolution of approximately 2 2.6 meters in down range and cross range. The color scales are in dB. were processed using the algorithm shown in and were processed using the algorithm shown in . show a zoomed in region in respectively. Targets near the center of antenna beam imaged in their correct location as shown by the in the figures. However targets not near the center of the beam can be offset or even aliased to other locations. These images show that the image quality slightly decreases as the position of the targets move away from the center of the antenna beam. The image quality looks good within 50 meters of the center of the beam for the more computational complex algorithm. illustrates SAR image of stationary reflectors with 2 2.6 meter resolution.

SAR Based GMTI Algorithms. The algorithms developed for processing SAR imagery were leveraged to detect slow moving targets such as dismounts. Moving targets can be detected by subtracting the SAR images generated from the right and left receive antenna that are spatially aligned and calibrated. shows a block diagram of the processing. First the images from the two antennas are aligned by skipping data collected with the left antenna until the effective phase centers of the right and left antenna are approximately equal. Next SAR images are generated using the algorithms described in either or then they are calibrated and subtracted from each other.

The SAR images were calibrated using a technique based upon signal subspace decomposition SSD . The technique assumes that the SAR images are related to each other through a linear transfer function. The simplest realization of this technique is a one element finite impulse response FIR filter. To implement this filter a gain and a phase correction factor between the two images was calculated using the ratio of the average powers and the amplitude weighted phase difference between the two images. A more complicated realization of this technique is to assume that the subimages from each antenna are related by a 2 dimensional FIR filter. This technique was implemented by minimizing the least squares error using the left matrix divide operation in MATLAB. Results will be shown for both techniques. Calibration based upon signal sub space decomposition effectively cancels most of the clutter however some residue will still be present. To reduce the residue of large clutter discretes a normalization procedure was developed. To normalize the image the SAR image difference was divided by the square root of the minimum amplitude value for each pixel location in the two images plus a constant value representing the noise as shown below. Norm Min SAR1 SAR2 Noise 1 

The performance of the GMTI algorithms based upon SAR processing techniques was simulated in MATLAB . The difference in the SAR images from each antenna was assumed to be only a function of the antennas not the receiver. Table 4 shows the values of the simulated parameters for the two receive antennas. The horizontal separation between the phase centers of the two antennas in the simulations is 4 centimeters. The simulation was run with the parameters shown in tables 2 to 4.

The simulation was run to test whether dismounts could be detected at a range of a kilometer using the proposed radar for the UAV and the described signal processing algorithms. The parameters for the radar and the signal processing are described in tables 1 and 2 with the number of chirps increased to Four variations of the GMTI algorithms were tested. The SAR images were generated using either the block diagrams in or and the SAR image calibration was performed using signal subspace decomposition using either a 1 element or 3 3 element FIR filter. The algorithm was tested using six moving targets described in table 5. One target was moving at 10 m s three targets were moving at 1 m s and two targets were moving at 0.5 m s. All the moving targets had an RCS of 6 dBsm and were located at a range of approximately 1 km. The angular location of the targets was specified relative to the azimuth boresight angle of the right antenna which was 45 degrees. The height of all these targets was fixed at zero meters. Table 5 shows the velocity and location of each target.

The clutter was modeled using either three or one scattering center for each range bin. Three scatterers were used for ranges between 900 and 1100 meters and one scatterer was used for ranges between 100 to 900 meters and 1100 to 1300 meters. of the clutter varied linearly as a function of aspect angle. For depression angles between 5 and 70 degrees 0 varied between 15 to 10 dBsm sm. At a range of 1 km this corresponded to a of 15 dBsm sm. The number of scatterers used to model the clutter was limited to reduce computation time. For more realistic results the number of scattering centers per range bin should be set to the number of cross range bins.

The predicted performance of the algorithm based upon complete clutter cancellation and most favorable target velocity is shown in . For slow moving targets the relative phase shift between the two antennas is approximately 2k 2 

where k is the propagation number a is a unit vector originating at the initial target position and pointing at the location of the UAV v is the velocity of the target and is a time delay. For a small UAV with constant velocity is calculated by dividing the distance between the phase centers of the two antennas by the velocity. These results indicate that the algorithm performance is not thermal noise limited at 1 km for most target velocity vectors.

These simulated results were in good agreement with the predicted results shown in . As expected targets 1 and 3 were not observable. Targets 2 and 4 were easily observed and targets 5 and 6 could be seen but would be detected with a high false alarm rate. These results indicate that target imagery difference for GMTI is slightly better for the more computation complex SAR algorithm described in . The calibration based upon the 3 3 element FIR filter produced much better results than the calibration based upon the 1 element FIR filter. However the normalization procedure improved the results for the 1 element FIR calibration much more than the results for the 3 3 element FIR calibration.

The SAR based GMTI algorithms developed for the proposed radar for the UAV were tested using measured radar collected. Data was collected using a low power CW radar with linear frequency modulation LFM that was mounted on a pick up truck as shown in . The horn on the right is for transmit and the two horns on the left are for receive. The phase centers of the two receive horns are separated by 5 inches. The parameters for the radar are given in table 6.

The radar was used to collect data that was used to test the SAR and GMTI algorithms developed for the UAV. shows a satellite picture of the field test site. In phase and quadrature phase I Q data were collected as the radar was driven down the road at approximately 7 to 10 mph. There were two reflectors in the scene at ranges of approximately 100 and 125 m that were separated in cross range by approximately 30 meters. There is a building and some trees at ranges of approximately 250 300 meters. shows a picture of the two reflectors with a person standing between them. The RCS of the reflectors is approximately 10 dBsm at 7.2 GHz. Data were taken as the person walked between the reflectors and towards the road. No GPS or INS data were available.

SAR images were generated from the I Q radar data and the GMTI algorithms were tested. Since no vehicle motion data was collected the images were focused using the returns from the reflector at a range of 125 meters. The phase of the returns from the reflector in the HRR profiles was used to focus the entire scene. This corresponds approximately to the processing scheme shown in . Next SAR images were generated by performing FFTs across the range bins of interest. The data was processed with and without averaging and using two techniques to calibrate the SAR images measured with the left and right receive antennas.

The results for the average predicted performance of the GTMI algorithm is shown in for targets moving at 1 m s. For this scenario multipath can have a significant impact on the performance. At the ranges of interest the affect of multipath is highly dependent upon the geometry which was not accurately characterized. Therefore the affect of multipath is ignored in the predicted performance. These results assume that the radar performance is thermal noise limited and full processing gain is achieved in the signal processing algorithm and the clutter is completely cancelled. These results indicate that a target moving at 1 m s at a range of 125 meters should have a SNR of approximately 55. These estimates assume no losses and are not expected to be achieved using the measured data. However the radar signature of the person should be clean and easily distinguishable.

To more closely simulate the performance of the GMTI algorithms developed for proposed UAV radar the measured data were averaged and then processed to form SAR images. First two chirps of data were averaged together without any motion compensation then eight of these processed pulses were range compressed motion compensated then averaged. This resulted in the data being decimated by a factor of 16. SAR images were generated by performing an FFT across the range bins of interest. show the image difference and the normalized image difference calculated with averaging and calibrated using a 1 element FIR filter. show the image difference and the normalized image difference calculated with averaging and calibrated using a 1 1 element FIR filter. Donnie s radar signature is observed in however the location of the signature has changed from the previous results due to aliasing. The radar returns from Donnie exhibits the classic micro Doppler effects. The main signal is the return from the trunk. On either side of this signal are the returns from the arms and legs which have a small Doppler offset relative to the return from the trunk. All the figures contain a large streak caused by an unknown artifact in the radar. This streak is also present in the non averaged data shown in but without any aliasing. This artifact is of no consequence and should be ignored.

As expected the SNR of Donnie s signature is visually improved by using more coefficients in the FIR filter and by normalizing the results. These results visually demonstrate that the algorithm described in can be used to detect dismounts. The SNR of the radar signature of Donnie is high but it is less than the predicted range of 55 to 60 dB. This result is not surprising since there were a large number of assumptions made that are not strictly valid.

Computational efficient SAR and SAR based GMTI algorithms were developed and tested for a proposed radar. The results from the SAR simulation indicated that focused imagery with 2 2.6 meter resolution at a range of 500 meters could be obtained. The algorithms support higher resolution SAR imagery but the proposed radar did not support the increased bandwidth requirements.

SAR based GMTI algorithms for detecting dismounts were developed and tested using simulated and measured data. The simulation indicated that for the UAV traveling at 3 m s dismounts moving at 1 m s could be observed at a range of 1 kilometer. This was in agreement with the theoretical predictions. The performance of the algorithm improved as more computational intensive SAR processing and calibration techniques were evaluated. The SAR based GMTI algorithms were tested with radar data collected. Data were collected on a dismount as an ARL instrumentation radar was driven down the road. The radar signature with classic micro Doppler effects was observed.

Radar System Specifications. A linear frequency modulated continuous wave FMCW radar with homodyne demodulation and an interferometric capability in azimuth is proposed to meet the above requirements. Table 1 shows the major design specifications for the radar. The frequency response of signals output by the radar is between 125 KHz and 2.5 MHz. These signals are sampled at 10 MSPS with a 12 bit analog to digital converter ADC .

The simulation software modeled all the major factors that affect the performance the proposed UAV radar. The return signal from targets was modeled using the standard radar equation. The radar model included the effects of range component noise transmit power antenna and various noise sources. The antenna was modeled as either a Gaussian or isotropic radiator. The noise in the simulation included the leakage signal phase noise thermal noise and crystal vibration effects. The electromagnetic scattering from targets and clutter were modeled as isotropic point scatterers. Multipath was not modeled but for the geometries of interest it is not anticipated to have a significant effect on the radar performance. The point scatter model included 3 d location 3 d velocity vector and a fixed amplitude and phase. The clutter was modeled statistically with point scatter models. The amplitude of the scatterers were derived from values were specified as a function of angle. The platform was modeled using 3 velocity vector 3 d acceleration vector and 3 d vibration vector. The simulation parameters were input by editing a Matlab m file. Appendix A shows an example of the parameters in an mfile for a SAR simulation. The details of these factors are described below.

There were several sources of noise included in the simulation. The thermal noise was assumed to be white and Gaussian. Its power was determined by the IF bandwidth radar noise figure and receiver loss. This model assumed that the data was sampled at Nyquist frequency. The effect of vibration noise on the crystal oscillator was modeled as an additive term to the phase of the oscillator with an arbitrary number of harmonics. In the simulation the fundamental frequency was approximately 133 Hz 8000 rpm 60 with 4 additional harmonics included in the model. The power level of each frequency was 26 44 48 51 65 dB below the power of the fundamental frequency of the oscillator. The signal associated with each frequency was added to the phase of the transmitted signal. The vibration of the outer structure of the UAV and the antennas attached to it were also simulated using a harmonic model. The same frequencies used to model the crystal oscillator were used to model the vibration of the UAV and the antennas attached to it. The value of the g s used in the simulation for each frequency were 10 3 1 0.5 and 0 m s2.

The phase noise model allowed arbitrary power levels for arbitrary frequency ranges. For SAR data collected on a UAV this can require several seconds of data. This requirement is difficult to simulate using conventional techniques with a single filter.

For this simulation the phase noise was generated by filtering white noise with two infinite impulse response HR filters interpolating then combining the results. This process simplified the filter design problem by breaking it up into two pieces. Both filters were generated by solving Yule Walker equations for a 10order system. shows an example of the desired and actual response for these filters. The output of the filter shown in was computed once and then interpolated over a CPI of data. The output of the filter shown in was recomputed for every PRI. The results for the two data streams were added together to simulate the phase noise. This software can accept arbitrary inputs but the user must check that the designed filters are good approximations to the specifications.

The clutter was modeled using point scatterers with a statistical distribution. The value of varied as a function of depression angle as shown in . Due to memory and processing time limitations the number of scatterers was limited. This is not ideal but for most applications the impact should be minimal. The amplitude and position of the scattering centers were calculated at each range bin associated with a chirped linear frequency modulated LFM waveform. To limit processing time the number of scatterers per range bin was set one value if the range bins were of high interest and to another value if the range bins were of low interest. For all the simulations shown three scatterers were generated per range bin for clutter between 900 1100 m and one scatterer was generated for range bins between 100 900 m and 1100 1300 m. shows an example of a histogram of the amplitude of the scattering centers and shows an example of the spatial distribution of the scattering centers. The amplitude of the scattering centers were randomly selected with the constraint that the expected value of the power of the scattering centers corresponded to average power returned for multiplied by the area of range swath for the angle of angle of interest. The scattering centers were spread even in angle over the beam width of the antenna and then randomly perturbed in angle and range.

The beam pattern of the antenna was modeled as either omnidirectional or Gaussian. The shape of the Gaussian antenna was controlled by a pointing angle which corresponds to the mean and the beamwidth which corresponds to the standard deviation of a Gaussian distribution. The effect of pitch yaw and roll were not modeled. Small variations in these parameters probably do not have a significant impact on the radar performance since a typical value for the antenna beams widths are 70 100 degrees.

The motion of the UAV was modeled as a constant acceleration in x y and z directions. The amplitude of the acceleration was 0.1 m sfor range Doppler processing and 0.05 m sfor SAR processing. The position of the targets could be input in either Cartesian or spherical coordinate systems. In both coordinate systems they were described relative to scene center. The motion of the targets was modeled as 3 d vectors with a constant velocity.

The path lengths in the radar were assumed to be configured so that the leakage signal and the demodulation signal used for down conversion had approximately equal time delays. For all the simulation runs the path length difference between these signals was set at 1 centimeter and the amplitude of the leakage signal was attenuated by 30 dB.

Range Doppler simulation. The simulation software was developed to evaluate the radar performance for the UAV operating in a range Doppler mode. For range Doppler processing range and radial velocity can be determined from the peaks in the range Doppler matrix. Angle can be determined by comparing the phase of the peak pixels in range Doppler matrices processed in the right and left receive antennas. shows a block diagram of the proposed signal processing to generate a range Doppler matrix.

The simulation software was used to evaluate the radar performance for the UAV operating in a hovering mode. Table 4 shows the values of the major parameters used in the simulation. The targets consisted of two stationary reflectors with a RCS of 20 dBsm and four moving reflectors with a RCS of 6 dBsm and radial velocities of 1 2 10 and 10 m s. The clutter was simulated using a varying from 5 to 15 dBsm sm. The simulation included the phase noise modeled using the curves shown in . The effects of vibration on the crystal oscillator were also included as previously described. The output of the simulation is shown in . No clutter subtract is performed in the processing. The SNR for the slow moving targets is approximately 15 dB. These results show that the proposed radar should be capable of detecting dismounts moving at a radial rate of 1 m s at a range of 500 meters.

SAR simulation The simulation software was developed to evaluate the radar performance for the operating in a SAR mode. Stripmap SAR imagery can be generated by flying the UAV along a straight line and transmitting and same waveform used to generate range Doppler matrices LFM . Two variations of stripmap SAR imaging algorithms were developed and incorporated into the simulation. show block diagrams of the proposed signal processing for SAR.

Tables 2 and 3 show the parameters values used in the SAR simulation. Repeated parameters in table 3 were used in place of the parameters in table 2. The SAR simulation used a factor of 18 times more data than the range Doppler algorithm without clutter cancellation filter but after filtering and decimation the FFT sizes were identical.

Simulated SAR images were generated using the algorithm described in and the radar parameters described in tables 2 and 3. The data were also filtered with a 2 dimension Kaiser window with a Beta of 2. Simulated data consisting of the returns for 4608 chirps that were collected over a 5.5 meter interval then processed. This results in a SAR images with a resolution of approximately 2 2.6 meters in down range and cross range. The color scales are in dB. The were processed using the algorithm shown in . shows the result. Targets near the center of antenna beam imaged in their correct location as shown by the x in the figures however targets not near the center of the beam can be offset or even aliased to other locations. These images show that the image quality slightly decreases as the position of the targets move away from the center of the antenna beam. The image quality and registration looks good within 50 meters of the center of the image for the GMTI simulation. The simulation software was developed to evaluate the radar performance for the UAV on the move operating in a GMTI mode. The GMTI algorithms were based upon generating SAR images in each of the two receive antennas and then coherently subtracting them. The stationary targets should cancel and the slow moving targets should not cancel. shows a block diagram of the signal processing. The SAR images were generated using the parameters in tables 3 5.

The SAR images were calibrated using a technique based upon signal subspace decomposition SSD i . The technique assumes that the SAR images are related to each other through a linear transfer function. The simplest realization of this technique is a one element finite impulse response FIR filter. To implement this filter a gain and a phase correction factor between the two images was calculated using the ratio of the average powers and the amplitude weighted phase difference between the two images. A more complicated realization of this technique is to assume that the subimages from each antenna are related by a 2 dimensional FIR filter. This technique was implemented by minimizing the least squares error using the left matrix divide operation in matlab.

Calibration based upon signal sub space decomposition effectively cancels most of the clutter however some residue will still be present. To reduce the residue of large clutter discretes a normalization procedure was developed. To normalize the image the SAR image difference was divided by the square root of the minimum amplitude value for each pixel location in the two images plus a constant value representing the noise as shown below.

The difference in the SAR images from each antenna was assumed to be only a function of the antennas not the receiver. Table 4 shows the values of the simulated parameters for the two receive antennas. The horizontal separation between the phase centers of the two antennas in the simulations is 4 centimeters.

The simulation was run to test whether dismounts could be detected at a range of a kilometer using the proposed radar for the UAV and the described signal processing algorithms. Results are presented for the SAR processing described in and signal subspace calibration using 3 3 element FIR filter. The algorithm was tested using six moving targets described in table 5. One target was moving at 10 m s three targets were moving at 1 m s and two targets were moving at 0.5 m s. All the moving targets had an RCS of 6 dBsm and were located at a range of approximately 1 km. The angular location of the targets was specified relative to the azimuth boresight angle of the right antenna which was 45 degrees. The height of all these targets was fixed at zero meters. Table 5 shows the velocity and location of each target.

As expected targets 1 and 3 were not observable. Targets 2 and 4 were easily observed and targets 5 and 6 could be seen but would be detected with a high false alarm rate. These results indicate that dismount like targets could be detected at a range on 1 km using the proposed radar and signal processing.

Simulation software was developed for testing the performance for a UAV platform. The simulation software modeled all the major factors that affect the performance the proposed UAV radar. The radar model included the effects of range component noise transmit power antenna and various noise sources. The antenna was modeled as either a Gaussian or isotropic radiator. The noise in the simulation included the leakage signal phase noise thermal noise and crystal vibration effects. The electromagnetic scattering from targets and clutter were modeled as isotropic point scatterers. Point scatterers model included 3 d location 3 d velocity vector and a fixed amplitude and phase. The clutter was modeled statistically with point scatter models. The amplitude of the scatterers were derived from values were specified as a function of angle. The UAV platform was modeled using 3 d velocity vector 3 d acceleration vector and 3 d vibration vector.

The performance of Range Doppler processing SAR and SAR based GMTI algorithms developed for the proposed radar were simulated and examples of the results were presented. The GMTI algorithms were based upon generating SAR images in each of the two receive antennas and then coherently subtracting them. With this type of processing stationary targets cancel while the slowly moving targets do not.

The performance of the algorithms particular the SAR based GMTI algorithms need further evaluation. More realistic simulations and measured data with better ground truths are needed to estimate their performance.

SIGNAL PROCESSING SAR imagery is generated by coherently processing the sampled radar data. After demodulation the signal SAR data can be modeled as

where X Y and Zare the coordinates of the center of the region of interest. This product can be approximated using the first order Taylor series given by

where Ris the range to the scene center and Yis the maximum cross range extent of the target relative to the scene center.

where L V and A are the position velocity and acceleration of the platform on the y axis. Since A is in general nonzero the sample positions along the track are not uniformly spaced which is undesirable.

For slow moving platforms the radar data can be compressed along the track. For a compression of M raw data samples into N decimated samples the desired location of phase center of the decimated samples are uniformly spaced and given by 0 2 01 6 

Next we would like to combine the data in each segment. For small changes in u the average phase of the compressed radar signal equals the phase of the average of the compressed radar signal. This approximation is based upon the first order Taylor series expansion

However this will not produce filtered data with effective uniform sampling in u due to non uniform sample rates and quantization errors. Effective uniform sampling can be achieved by multiplying the data in each segment by a weighting function

The foregoing description is illustrative of particular embodiments of the invention but is not meant to be a limitation upon the practice thereof. The following claims including all equivalents thereof are intended to define the scope of the invention. As used in the following claims the term processor means one or more processing units central processing units processor cores microprocessors digital signal processors multiprocessors computers and or controllers which may be connected together or to other circuitry in a manner known to those of ordinary skill in the art. As used in the foregoing claims the term target includes object s area person s setting place or scene.

