---

title: Method and apparatus for collecting entity aliases
abstract: A system and method for collecting entity aliases include a web object collection component that obtains, from a web search engine, at least one Web object associated with a user' input entity. The system and method also include a social tag collection component that obtains a respective set of social tags for each of the Web objects from a social tag website and defines candidate aliases for the user's input entity based upon the respective set of social tags. An aliases refinement component refines the candidate aliases to obtain a collection of aliases of the user's input entity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08161059&OS=08161059&RS=08161059
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08161059
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090114
---
This application is based upon and claims priority from prior Chinese Patent Application No. 200810004920.5 filed on Jan. 29 2008 the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates to the field of information processing. More specifically the present invention relates to collecting entity aliases from various sources.

The detection and identification of entity aliases are often needed in the fields of security business analysis and scientific research. The term entity as used herein refers to specific entities objects or events for which information is stored for example a person s name a place s name an organization s name a product s name etc. An entity often has several aliases which refer to additional assumed names of the entity for example the legacy names the abbreviations or the commonly misused names of the entity. For example the organizational entity Beijing Scientific and Technology University has aliases including Beijing College of Iron and Steel Technology legacy name Bei Ke Da abbreviation Steel College abbreviation of legacy name Capital Scientific and Technology University misused name etc. In an ideal entity dataset it is desirable that all of these aliases are identified and merged into one group so that such an entity dataset can better serve various applications such as building a data warehouse performing client relationship management CRM and fraud detection. The detection and identification of entity aliases are becoming increasingly important.

The existing solutions to the entity alias problem focus on the discrimination of the identity of entities that is to discriminate whether two or more entities are identical from various available clues. These solutions can be divided into two categories based upon whether they use a reference dataset. In the first category all the input entities are matched to the existing reference entities and those entities matching with a same reference entity are regarded as aliases. In the second category the input entities are directly matched to each other. In either solution the core matching method relies on computing the morphologic orthographic phonetic or semantic similarities of the tokens associated with the entities. For example the phonetic based Soundex algorithm encodes all English words by removing vowels and representing the consonants with six phonetic classifications of human speech sounds bilabial labiodental dental alveolar velar and glottal . The edit distance algorithm assumes that the differences between two strings can be measured by three kinds of writing alternations insertion deletion substitution . The behavior based algorithm asserts that two entities are connected if they share similar semantic links in a dataset e.g. if two Email IDs have the same patterns of inbound and outbound emails then they are most probably owned by a same entity .

The above two existing solutions to the entity alias problem discriminate a number of entities the input entities after having obtained these entities through certain ways but the solutions do not concern how to get these input entities. Therefore these solutions cannot solve the problem of obtaining a collection of all the possible aliases for a specific entity.

On the other hand with the flouring Web 2.0 technology social tags for Web objects are easily available from social tag websites. In a network socialized environment authors and readers are allowed to select their preferred tags for a Web object e.g. Web pages images or video segments i.e. keywords or terms associated with that Web object and share with others. The social tags as metadata conferred by the public to Web objects make possible the social sharing of the network information. For example when a reader is interested in a Web object he can get a list of tags added by others to the Web object from the social tag websites so that the reader may quickly determine the property and usage of the object.

However social tags as a tool for enabling the social sharing of network information has not yet been utilized in collecting entity aliases.

Accordingly what is needed is a method and system to enhance the above described characteristics of the prior art to provide for improved collection of entity aliases.

The object of the present invention is to solve the above problem in the prior art and to provide a method apparatus and computer program product for collecting entity aliases automatically and quickly.

According to the first aspect of the present invention there is provided a method for collecting entity aliases that includes obtaining from a web search engine at least one Web object associated with a user input entity. The method also includes obtaining from a social tag website a respective set of social tags for each of the Web objects and defining based upon the respective set of social tags candidate aliases for the user s input entity. The method additionally includes refining the candidate aliases to obtain a collection of aliases of the user s input entity

According to the second aspect of the present invention there is provided an apparatus for collecting entity aliases includes a web object collection component that obtains from a web search engine at least one Web object associated with a user input entity. The apparatus also includes a social tag collection component that obtains a respective set of social tags for each of the Web objects from a social tag website and defines candidate aliases for the user s input entity based upon the respective set of social tags. The Apparatus further includes an aliases refinement component refines the candidate aliases to obtain a collection of aliases of the user s input entity.

According to the present invention it is possible to automatically and quickly collect the aliases of almost all the real world entities by obtaining a large number of associated Web objects and their social tags. In addition social tags reflect the public s cognition of the Web objects associated with the entity. Therefore the alias collecting based on the social tags have a social nature. As compared with other alias collecting methods which are based on the collector s subjective cognition the results of the present invention are more comprehensive and more time effective. Based on the collection of entity aliases obtained by the present invention the alias resolution can be directly performed by verifying whether designated entities appear in the same one collection.

Below embodiments of the invention will be described in detail in conjunction with the appended figures. The figures form a part of the specification and illustrate some embodiments of the invention. It is understood that other embodiments may be used and changes in structures and operations may be made without departing from the scope of the invention. Further the above embodiments are used to describe how the invention is implemented only and should not be considered as limitation to the protection scope of the invention. In general statements made in the specification of the present application do not necessarily limit any of the various claimed inventions. Moreover some statements may apply to some inventive features but not to others. In general unless otherwise indicated singular elements may be in the plural and vice versa with no loss of generality

Web object collection component receives the entity input by the user and searches for the input entity on the network through Web search engine website like Google Baidu and Yahoo so as to obtain a list of Web objects associated with the entity returned from the Web search engine website . Web object collection component provides the returned Web objects to social tag collection component .

Social tag collection component searches for the returned Web objects on social tag website so as to retrieve the social tags for the Web objects . The received social tags are considered as candidate aliases of the user s input entity . Then social tag collection component provides these social tags i.e. candidate aliases to the alias refinement component for refinement processing.

Alias refinement component applies named entity recognition NER technology to each tag provided by the social tag collection component so as to recognize and label the entities therein. Then the entities are ranked according to one or more of the following criteria the homogeneity between the entity as recognized and the user s input entity i.e. whether the recognized entity and the user s input entity are of the same kind and if not the degree of similarity between them the occurrence frequency of the tags which contain the recognized entity and the authoritativeness of the Web objects from which the entity is obtained etc. Finally those entities which have a rank higher than a predetermined threshold are determined as a collection of aliases of the user s input entity .

Next the method for collecting entity aliases according to the present invention will be explained with reference to the processing flowchart in which illustrates a processing flow of a method for collecting entity aliases according to one embodiment of the present invention. In this example it is assumed that the user wants to collect the aliases of the organizational entity Cornell University .

In step Web object collection component upon receiving the entity name Cornell University input by the user searches for the input entity Cornell University on Web search engine websites such as Google Baidu and Yahoo so as to obtain a list of Web objects associated with the entity.

Web object collection component can search for Web objects associated with an entity on Web search engine website in the following two ways.

The first way is to search by means of programming interface of the Web search engine. Generally major Web search engine service providers like Google and Yahoo have provided convenient application programming interfaces. In this case Web object collection component directly sends the content to be searched to Web search engine website via the programming interface and the website returns the search results in a structuralized form. Table 1 shows an example using the application programming interface of Google Google API . The search function using the Google API is able to be realized through the following Java pseudo codes based on the specific client key obtained in advance from Google company and the Google API development toolkit downloaded in advance 

The second way is to use Internet connection to get the returned page from the Web search engine and then analyze the format of the returned page to obtain the search results. This method comprises three major steps firstly the internet connection is established secondly the query string is converted into a unified resource locator URL which is sent to the internet connection to get the result page and thirdly the format of the resulting page is analyzed to extract the URL and title of the desired search result. These three steps can be realized e.g. by the following Java pseudo codes shown in TABLE 2.

Take the search engine website of Baidu for instance in the case where the query string itself consists entirely of English characters the query string itself plus a prefix http www.baidu.com s wd may be directly used. If the query string contains a space then the space is converted into a plus sign . Specifically for Cornell University in this example a request for http www.baidu.com s wd Cornell University may be submitted to the Internet. The page returned from Web search engine website is in the form of HTML marks and text. By finding some specific feature strings the URL and title of each result items can be extracted.

For the case of Cornell University Web object collection component can obtain the following results shown in TABLE 3 from the Web search engine website e.g. Baidu 

In step social tag collection component searches on the social tag website for the Web objects returned in step so as to retrieve all the social tags for these Web objects.

Similar to the case of Web object collection component if the social tag service provider has provided the application programming interface the social tag collection component can directly send the content to be searched to social tag website via the application programming interface and the website returns the search results.

On the other hand if the social tag service provider does not provide the application programming interface a method of obtaining a page and analyzing the page similar to that described above can be utilized. Take the tag service provided by del.icio.us for instance in order to obtain the social tags for a URL the following Internet request can be sent http del.icio.us url check url http 3A 2F 2Fwww.website.com dir page.htm wherein the 3A 2F 2F is the hexadecimal representation of . For example if it is desirable to know which tags have been added to http www.cornell.edu by the public a request for http del.icio.us url check url http 3A 2F 2Fwww.cornell.edu may be sent to the Internet. By finding some specific feature strings in the returned pages all the social tags associated with the URL can be extracted.

According to an embodiment social tag collection component also classifies the Web objects according to the URL format thereof. Specifically the URLs of the Web objects are resolved as URL protocol host name directory name file name. URL formats only containing HTTP host names are homepages. URL formats with directory names are entry pages. Other URL formats are article pages. The analysis of the URL of Web objects provides a clue about the authoritativeness of the Web objects which can be used for the alias refinement step.

For the example of Cornell University the results of the social tag collection component searching on the social tag website e.g. del.icio.us for the tags of the Web objects and classifying the Web objects are illustrated in TABLE 4 as follows 

All the tags in the column of social tags are considered as the candidate aliases for the entity of Cornell University and these candidate aliases are provided to the alias refinement component .

In step alias refinement component performs refinement processing on the candidate aliases. According to one embodiment the refinement step is realized by the following sub steps 

In step all the social tags obtained in step i.e. candidate aliases are assembled into a list of tuples consisting of and wherein each element in are made up of and . For the example of Cornell University the assembled list is illustrated in TABLE 5 

In step the named entity recognition NER engine is applied to these tags to detect and label the entities. NER is a program for recognizing entities from a given piece of text. It outputs the starting position end position and type of the recognized entities.

The NER engine can be realized by the known art. Specifically the NER engine involved in the present invention can be implemented by a machine learning method. The machine learning method is made up of two major modules training module and applying module. illustrates a processing flow diagram for the operations performed by the training module according to one embodiment of the present invention. A small portion of collected social tags are manually labeled then the manually labeled boundaries and types of these entities are received 502 and a labeled social tag corpus is obtained . Feature extraction of social tags is performed on the labeled corpus by means of language dictionary . The feature extraction step results in a feature vector set which includes various linguistic features e.g. a word itself its preceding and following words whether the beginning letter is capitalized the prefix of a word the postfix of a word the semantic type of a word etc. Feature vector set is sent to learning algorithm and a learned model is obtained . The learned model describes the contribution probability of all the features in the feature vector to each named entity type.

For the example of Cornell University the recognition result of the named entity recognition engine for the collected social tags are illustrated in TABLE 6 

In step the entities recognized in step are ranked according to one or more of the following criteria or the combination thereof the homogeneity with the entity input by the user the occurrence frequency of the tags which contain the entity and the authoritativeness of the Web objects from which the entity is obtained etc. For example types like university name and abbreviation of university name can be regarded as having a higher homogeneity with the user s input entity while types like general name of buildings and name of place are regarded as having a lower homogeneity with the user s input entity. Regarding the authoritativeness of the Web objects as mentioned in step previously it can be determined from URL type of the Web objects. For example Web objects of homepage type can be regarded as having the highest authoritativeness Web objects of entry page type can be regarded as having a lower authoritativeness and Web objects of article page type can be regarded as having the lowest authoritativeness.

In step those entities with a rank higher than a predetermined threshold in step are collected as the aliases of the user s input entity.

For the example of Cornell University the collection of aliases finally determined by the aliases refinement component based on a predetermined combination of the above criteria is as follows 

In similar ways to the above example it is possible to automatically and quickly collect the aliases of almost all the real world entities by obtaining a large number of Web objects and their social tags.

The present invention has been described above with reference to one embodiment. It should be noted that the description of one embodiment is only for illustration purpose and shall not be understood as limiting the present invention. For example in the embodiment described above entity aliases collection apparatus accesses to search engine website like Google and Baidu via network to obtain a list of Web objects associated with the input entities. However those skilled in the art can appreciate that the present invention is not limited to this. Entity aliases collection apparatus itself can run a search engine or can be coupled to a local search engine apparatus to obtain a list of Web objects associated with the input entities. As another example in the embodiment described above social tag collection component collects social tags for all the Web objects returned by the web object collection component . However the present invention is not limited to this. Instead according to predetermined rules social tags can be collected only for some of the Web objects e.g. Web objects of specific types or a certain number of Web objects from the beginning of the returned list .

Moreover the present invention may be embodied as computer program product and can be accessed from computer readable medium. The computer readable medium provides program code for use in conjunction with computers or any other instruction executing systems. The computer readable medium may be electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infra and semiconductor devices. The specific examples of computer readable medium include semiconductor or solid memory magnetic tape removable disk random access memory RAM read only memory ROM hard disk and optical disk. The current examples of optical disk include CD ROM CD R W and DVD etc.

Although a specific embodiment of the invention has been disclosed it will be understood by those having skill in the art that various modifications and changes can be made without departing the spirit and scope of the present invention. The scope of the invention is not to be restricted therefore to the specific embodiment and it is intended that the appended claims cover any and all such applications modifications and embodiments within the scope of the present invention.

