---

title: Identification and measurement of social influence and correlation
abstract: Techniques for detecting social influence between users in a set of users with regard to an activity are provided. Data for each user of the set of users is received that includes a time value at which the user became active with regard to the activity, and includes at least one indication of another user in the set of users associated with the user. A first estimate of social correlation in the set of users is determined based on the data. The data is modified. For instance, the data may be modified according to a shuffle test and/or an edge reversal test. A second estimate of social correlation in the set of users is determined based on the modified data. The first estimate is compared to the second estimate to determine a degree of social influence in the set of users.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08401984&OS=08401984&RS=08401984
owner: Yahoo! Inc.
number: 08401984
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090826
---
Social networking services and systems exist on the World Wide Web that are intended to build online social networks for communities of people having common interests and or activities or who are interested in exploring the interests and activities of others. Such systems provide various ways for users to interact including blogging discussion groups email file sharing instant messaging online chat video voice chat etc. Social networking systems such as MySpace.com and Facebook enable users to create self description pages also referred to as a profile page and enable the users to link their pages with pages of friends.

In many such online social systems social ties between users play an important role in dictating their behavior. One of the ways this can happen is through social influence. According to social influence the actions of a user can induce his her friends to behave in a similar way. In social systems where social influence may be exerted ideas modes of behavior new technologies and or further concepts can be diffused through the social network by the users. As such understanding how social influence is manifested within a social network may be leveraged by entities that desire to market products and services to users in the social network.

However detecting social influence in a social network is a difficult task because it is difficult to distinguish the effects of social influence from other factors that may be present. Examples of such other factors include homophily where individuals tend to befriend others who are similar to them and thus perform similar actions or further unobserved confounding variables that can induce a statistical correlation between the actions of friends in a social network. Distinguishing social influence from such factors is similar to the problem of distinguishing correlation from causality which is a notoriously difficult statistical problem.

Techniques are provided for detecting social influence between users in social networks with regard to particular actions activities in the social networks. Social influence may be detected based on data associated with the social network such as data indicating relationships associations within the social network as well as time stamps indicating times that users in the social network become active with respect to the activity. The social network data may be analyzed to determine a first estimate of social correlation. The social network data may be modified such as by modifying the indicated relationships associations and or the time stamps. A second estimate of social correlation may be generated based on the modified social network data and the first and second estimates may be compared to detect whether social influence is present. A particular level or degree of the social influence present in the social network with regard to the activity may optionally be determined.

In one implementation a method for detecting social influence between users in a set of users with regard to an activity is provided. Data for each user of the set of users is received that includes a time value at which the user became active with regard to the activity and includes at least one indication of another user in the set of users associated with the user. A first estimate of social correlation in the set of users is determined based on the data. The data is modified. For instance the data may be modified according to a shuffle test and or an edge reversal test. A second estimate of social correlation in the set of users is determined based on the modified data. The first estimate is compared to the second estimate to determine a degree of social influence in the set of users.

In another implementation a system for detecting social influence between users in a set of users with regard to an activity is provided. The system includes a social correlation determiner a data modifier and a social correlation comparator. The social correlation determiner receives data for each user of the set of users that includes a time value at which the user became active with regard to the activity and includes at least one indication of another user in the set of users associated with the user. The social correlation determiner is configured to determine a first estimate of social correlation in the set of users based on the data. The data modifier is configured to modify the data. The social correlation determiner is configured to receive the modified data and to determine a second estimate of social correlation in the set of users based on the modified data. The social correlation comparator is configured to compare the first estimate to the second estimate to determine a degree of social influence in the set of users.

In one aspect the social correlation determiner may include an active user determiner an inactive user determiner and a logistic regression estimator. The active user determiner is configured to determine a first number of users Yof the set of users for each time t of a plurality of times t that each had a number of c associated active users at time t and that became active at time t. The inactive user determiner is configured to determine a first number of users Nof the set of users for each time t of the plurality of times t that each were inactive at time t had a number of c associated active users at time t and did not become active at time t. The logistic regression estimator is configured to generate a first estimate of a coefficient using a maximum likelihood logistic regression based on the determined first number of users Yand the determined first number of users N. The coefficient indicates a degree of social correlation in the set of users. The active user determiner is configured to determine a second number of users Yof the set of users for each time t of the plurality of times t based on the modified data. The inactive user determiner is configured to determine a second number of users Nof the set of users for each time t of the plurality of times t based on the modified data. The logical regression estimator is configured to generate a second estimate of the coefficient using the maximum likelihood logistic regression based on the determined second number of users Yand the determined second number of users N. The social correlation comparator is configured to compare the first estimate of the coefficient to the second estimate of the coefficient to determine the degree of social influence.

In a further aspect the logical regression estimator may include a first summer a second summer and an expression maximizer. The first summer the second summer and the expression maximizer are configured to process the unmodified data to generate the first estimate and to process the modified data to generate the second estimate. In each case the first summer is configured to calculate Yfor each value of c where

In another aspect the data modifier may include a time value shuffle module configured to shuffle time values in the data between users of the set of users. In another implementation the data modifier may include an edge reversal module configured to reverse a direction of each indication of association between users of the set of users in the data.

Computer program products are also described herein. The computer program products include a computer readable medium having computer program logic recorded thereon for enabling social influence to be detected between users in a set of users with regard to an activity as well as enabling further embodiments.

Further features and advantages of the invention as well as the structure and operation of various embodiments of the invention are described in detail below with reference to the accompanying drawings. It is noted that the invention is not limited to the specific embodiments described herein. Such embodiments are presented herein for illustrative purposes only. Additional embodiments will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s based on the teachings contained herein.

The features and advantages of the present invention will become more apparent from the detailed description set forth below when taken in conjunction with the drawings in which like reference characters identify corresponding elements throughout. In the drawings like reference numbers generally indicate identical functionally similar and or structurally similar elements. The drawing in which an element first appears is indicated by the leftmost digit s in the corresponding reference number.

The present specification discloses one or more embodiments that incorporate the features of the invention. The disclosed embodiment s merely exemplify the invention. The scope of the invention is not limited to the disclosed embodiment s . The invention is defined by the claims appended hereto.

References in the specification to one embodiment an embodiment an example embodiment etc. indicate that the embodiment described may include a particular feature structure or characteristic but every embodiment may not necessarily include the particular feature structure or characteristic. Moreover such phrases are not necessarily referring to the same embodiment. Further when a particular feature structure or characteristic is described in connection with an embodiment it is submitted that it is within the knowledge of one skilled in the art to implement such feature structure or characteristic in connection with other embodiments whether or not explicitly described.

Online social systems play an ever important role in shaping the behavior of users on the World Wide Web the Web . Currently popular social websites such as Facebook social networking MySpace social networking Flickr photo video sharing and Del.icio.us social bookmarking are receiving increasingly greater amounts of user traffic and are turning into community spaces where users interact with their friends and acquaintances. Such social systems may track the interactions between their users including tracking which users are indicated as associated with each other e.g. as friends family followers etc. tracking interactions of the users with content etc. The availability of tracking data for social interactions at never before available scales enables user actions to be analyzed at an individual level in order to understand user behavior. A user s actions in the context of his her online associates may be analyzed including the correlating of the actions of socially connected users. For example the membership problem has been studied in an online community where a correlation between the action of a user joining an online community and the number of friends who are already members of that community was observed see Backstrom et al. Group Formation in Large Social Networks Membership Growth and Evolution 12th KDD Proceedings of the 12th ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining 2006 pages 44 54 . In another example the tag usage problem in Flickr was considered and the set of tags placed by a user and those placed by the friends of the user were studied showing a correlation between social connectivity and tag vocabulary see Marlow et al. HT06 tagging paper taxonomy Flickr academic article to read in Proceedings of the Seventeenth Conference on Hypertext and Hypermedia New York ACM Press 2006 pages 31 40 .

While such studies have established the existence of correlation between user actions and social affiliations they do not address the source of the correlation. Causes of correlation in social networks can be categorized into roughly three types. The first cause is social influence also known as induction where the action of a user is triggered by one of his her friend s recent actions. An example of social influence is when a user buys a product because one of his her friends has recently bought the same product. The second cause is homophily where persons tend to befriend other persons who are similar to them and hence perform similar actions. In an example of homophily a first pair of individuals that each own a Microsoft Xbox video game system are more likely to become friends due to the common interest as compared to a second pair of individuals where one or both of the individuals does not own a Microsoft Xbox video game system. The third cause is environment also known as confounding factors or external influence where external factors are correlated both with the event that two individuals become friends and also with their actions. In an example of confounding factors two friends are likely to live in the same city and therefore may be likely to post pictures of the same landmarks in an online photo sharing system.

The ability to identify situations where social influence is a source of correlation is important. In the presence of social influence an idea a norm of behavior a product or other entity or concept diffuses through the social network in a similar fashion as an epidemic. A marketing firm for example may desire to use social influence information to design viral marketing campaigns or to provide coupons to influential nodes in a social network or a system designer may take advantage of such information in order to induce users to follow a desired mode of behavior. There has already been significant research on methods for designing strategies to leverage social influence in such systems see D. Kempe et al. Maximizing the Spread of Influence Through a Social Network 9th KDD Proceedings of the Ninth ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining 2003 pages 137 146 and on the effect of influence on the growth pattern of new products see P. Young The Diffusion of Innovations in Social Networks in L. E. Blume and S. N. Durlauf editors The Economy as a Complex Evolving System Volume III. Oxford University Press 2003 . A core idea in viral marketing strategies is that in cases where social influence between users is prevalent careful targeting can have a cascading effect on the adoption of a product technology. Therefore being able to identify in which cases social influence prevails is an important step to marketing strategy design.

Because social influence is important it is desired to be enabled to test whether a given social system exhibits signs of social influence. This is a particularly difficult problem in online settings where individuals are often anonymous and therefore it is difficult if not impossible to control for all potential confounding factors. In embodiments the availability of data about the timing of actions that occur in online settings is leveraged to enable the presence of social influence to be determined by correlation.

Embodiments described herein enable the detection of social influence in social networks. For instance in one embodiment a statistical test which may be referred to as the shuffle test is used to determine social influence. The shuffle test is based on the concept that if social influence is not a likely source of correlation in a social network the timing of actions occurring in a social network do not matter and therefore reshuffling time stamps of actions occurring in the social network does not significantly change the amount of correlation. Thus with respect to the shuffle test actions in a social network are analyzed in a non time shuffled manner and are analyzed in a time shuffled manner and the non time shuffled analysis results and time shuffled analysis results are compared to determine whether social influence is present in the social network.

In another embodiment another test which may be referred to as the edge reversal test is used to determine the presence of social influence. The edge reversal test is based on the concept that if social influence is not a likely source of correlation in a social network the spreading of actions through the social network will not depend on the direction of associations e.g. friend relationships and or other association types between users in the social network. Because forms of social correlation other than social influence are based on associated users e.g. friends often sharing common characteristics or being affected by the same external variables and are independent of which of these two users has indicated the other as associated reversing the edges in the social network does not change the estimate of social correlation significantly. In contrast social influence does spread in the direction specified by the associations indicated in the social network. Thus according to the edge reversal test directions of the edges associations between users in the social network are reversed to form a reverse graph and actions in the reversed social network are analyzed. The reversed analysis results and non reversed analysis results are compared to determine whether social influence is present in the social network.

In embodiments of the present invention social correlation is modeled within social systems. In one example a set of users also called agents or persons may be indicated as nodes of a social network. For example shows a block diagram of a social network represented as a directed graph G . Social network includes users indicated as circular nodes in for illustrative purposes. In social network users are associated with each other in one way associations e.g. as between users and and in two way interactions e.g. as between users and . For example in a social network where users may designate friends as associations user may indicate user as a friend as indicated by association indicator directed from user to user as well as users and . An association list such as a friends list may be maintained for each user in social network including an association list for user that lists users and as friends of user an association list for user that lists user as a friend of user an association list for user that lists users and as friends of user etc. Because an association indicator is not present in social network directed from user to user user does not indicate user as a friend e.g. user is not listed in an association list of user .

Social network enables actions or activities by users to be tracked which can be used to determine social correlation. In an embodiment performance of a particular action or activity for the first time such as the purchasing of a product visiting a web page tagging a photo with a particular tag or any other action s activity s is tracked for users . After a particular user performs the action the user is considered to have become active with respect to the action . Social network may be observed over a particular period of time e.g. a time period 0 T to track times at which particular users become active. W may be used to denote the set of users that are active at the end of the time period.

Social correlation may be present in social network for first and second users that are adjacent in directed graph G where the events that become active with respect to the first user are correlated with the events becoming active with respect to the second user . For example as described above shows social network which includes users . Referring to a user may be considered to be active e.g. as indicated in by shading with respect to a particular activity. For example user may have viewed a particular video on a video sharing website. Associates e.g. friends followers etc. of user may also view the video. For example shows social network where users and which are associated with user e.g. users and have indicated user as a friend as indicated by association indicators directed from users and to user have also viewed the video as indicated by shading in . Users and may have been influenced by user to view the video or other factors may have led to users and viewing the video. As described above there are at least three explanations for social correlation homophily the environment or confounding factors and social influence. These factors are described as follows.

Homophily Homophily is the tendency of individuals to choose friends with similar characteristics. This is a pervasive phenomenon and may lead to correlation between the actions of adjacent users in social network . One example hypothesis for why there is social correlation in membership in an online community is that the users might know each other and become friends after joining the community. Mathematically in a pure homophily model the set W of active users is first selected according to some distribution and then the graph G is picked from a distribution that depends on W. Thus in users and may have viewed the video viewed by user because they have similar characteristics with user

Confounding factors The second explanation for correlation between actions of adjacent users in social network is external influence from elements in the environment also referred to as confounding factors which are more likely to affect users that are physically located close to each other in social network . Mathematically this means that there is a confounding variable X and both the graph G and the set of active users W come from distributions correlated with X. For example two individuals who live in the same city are more likely to become friends than two random individuals and they are also more likely to take pictures of similar scenery and post them on an image sharing website using the same tag e.g. a descriptive label . Thus in users and may have viewed the video viewed by user because they are located closely to user and the video may have covered an object in their local vicinity.

Note that there is a fine distinction between confounding factors and homophily. Homophily refers to situations where the set of active users W affects individuals choices to become friends while in confounding factors both the choices of individuals to become friends and their choice to become active are affected by the same unobserved variable. It is possible to distinguish between these models by analyzing the time where the edges association indicators of G are established.

Social influence As described above social influence refers to the phenomenon that the action of individuals can induce their associations e.g. friends etc. to act in a similar way. For example a first friend may set an example for a second friend e.g. as in the case of fashion may inform the second friend about an action e.g. as in viral marketing or may increase the value of an action for the second friend e.g. as in the case of adoption of a communication technology such as facsimile . Thus in users and may have viewed the video viewed by user because they were influenced by user e.g. user may have recommended the video to users and .

In an embodiment social influence can be modeled as follows a social network graph G may be generated according to a particular distribution. Then in each of the time steps 1 . . . T each non active user may or may not become active. The probability of becoming active for each user u may be a function p x of the number x of other users v that have an edge to user u and are already active. In embodiments p x can be any increasing function including the logistic regression as is used for illustrative purposes herein.

In this subsection example embodiments are described for measuring social correlation and testing whether social influence is a source of such social correlation. For instance shows a block diagram of a social influence detector system according to an example embodiment. Social influence detector system is configured to determine whether social influence is present with regard to a particular action or activity within a network of associated persons referred to herein as a social network. In one embodiment social influence detector system may be configured to indicate whether or not social influence is present in the social network with regard to the activity. In another embodiment social influence detector system may be configured to indicate a particular level or degree of social influence present in the social network with regard to the activity.

As shown in social influence detector system receives social network data . Social network data is data with regard to the activity of users in a social network such as social network of . Social network data may indicate associations between users in the social network e.g. friends lists followers following lists etc. including directions of the associations e.g. whether a first user is indicated as a friend of a second user and or whether the second user indicates the first user as a friend and may further include information regarding activities occurring in social network including time values time stamps indicating times at which various users in the social network perform a particular activity. Social influence detector system processes social network data to determine whether social influence is detected in the social network. As shown in social influence detector system generates a social influence indication which indicates whether social influence is detected in the social network and may indicate a degree of social influence detected to be present.

Social influence detector system may detect social influence in a social network in various ways. For instance shows a flowchart for detecting social influence according to example embodiments. In an embodiment social influence detector system may perform flowchart . Further structural and operational embodiments will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s based on the discussion regarding flowchart . For instance shows a block diagram of social influence detector system according to an example embodiment. As shown in social influence detector system includes a data modifier a social correlation determiner and a social correlation comparator . Flowchart is described as follows with reference to social influence detector system of for illustrative purposes.

Flowchart begins with step . In step data for each user of the set of users is received that includes a time value at which the user became active with regard to the activity and includes at least one indication of another user in the set of users associated with the user. For example as shown in social influence detector system receives social network data . Social network data may include data for each user of a social network. The data for each user may include a time value indicating a time at which the user became active with respect to the activity of interest. Furthermore the data for each user may include a list of other users in the social network that are associated e.g. as friend follower family etc. with the user and may indicate the type of association as friend follower family etc. .

For example referring to social network data may include data for each of users . For user social network data may indicate users and as friends of user and may indicate that at time t 0 user became active with regard to viewing a particular online video. For user social network data may indicate users and as friends of user and may indicate that at time t 1 user became active with regard to viewing the particular online video.

Note that the social network may track record such data in any manner. For example social network may maintain a friends or other type of list for each user in a similar manner as social networks such as Facebook MySpace Twitter a followers list etc. Furthermore the social network may track record web page clicks link clicks files accessed images viewed videos played items purchased etc. for each user in any suitable manner as would be known to persons skilled in the relevant art s .

In step a first estimate of social correlation is determined based on the data. For example in an embodiment social correlation determiner in may be configured to generate a first estimate of social correlation based on social network data . As shown in social correlation determiner generates a first estimate .

In step the data is modified. For example in an embodiment data modifier may perform step by receiving and modifying social network data to generate modified social network data . As described in further detail below data modifier may be configured to modify social network data in various ways including shuffling time values between the users of the social network that indicate when each user became active with respect to the activity reversing the directions of each association in the network etc.

In step a second estimate of social correlation is determined based on the modified data. For example in an embodiment social correlation determiner in may be configured to generate a second estimate of social correlation based on modified social network data . As shown in social correlation determiner generates a second estimate .

In step the first estimate is compared to the second estimate to determine a presence of social influence. For example in an embodiment social correlation comparator in may be configured compare first estimate to second estimate to determine the presence of social influence. As shown in social correlation comparator generates social influence indication . For example if first and second estimates and are relatively close together in value e.g. the difference is less than a predetermined threshold value social influence indication may indicate that social influence was not detected is not present . If first and second estimates and are relatively far apart in value e.g. the difference is greater than a predetermined threshold value social influence indication may indicate that social influence was detected is present . Furthermore social correlation comparator may indicate that degree of social influence detected proportional to the difference between first and second estimates and e.g. a greater amount of social influence is present if the difference is relatively greater a lesser amount of social influence is present if the difference is relatively less .

Further example embodiments for flowchart and social influence detector system are described in the following subsections.

In an embodiment a measure of social correlation between the actions of a user and associated users in a social network is estimated according to step of flowchart in . This measure is configured to recover the activation probability assuming that users follow the social influence model described above. According to the social influence model each user decides at each time step whether or not to become active. In principle the probability of activation can vary from user to user and from time to time. In an embodiment this probability is considered as a function of the number of already active associated users that the user has.

As described above the probability e.g. p x can be any increasing function. For example in an embodiment a logistic function with the logarithm of the number of associated users as the explanatory variable may be used. For instance Equation 1 shown below is a logistic function that may be used to estimate a probability p c of activation for a user with c already active associated users in an embodiment 

In an embodiment the coefficients and may be estimated using maximum likelihood logistic regression. For example in an embodiment social correlation determiner of may be configured to estimate coefficients and using maximum likelihood logistic regression. In such an embodiment social correlation determiner may be configured in various ways. For instance shows a block diagram of social correlation determiner according to an example embodiment. As shown in social correlation determiner includes an active user determiner an inactive user determiner and a logistic regression estimator . Social correlation determiner of is configured to estimate social correlation by estimating coefficients and using maximum likelihood logistic regression. Social correlation determiner may determine social correlation various ways. For instance shows a flowchart for determining social correlation according to an example embodiment. In an embodiment social correlation determiner of may perform flowchart . Further structural and operational embodiments will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s based on the discussion regarding flowchart . Flowchart and social correlation determiner of are described as follows.

Flowchart begins with step . In step a first number of users Yof the set of users is determined for each time t of a plurality of times t that had a number of c associated active users at time t and that became active at time t. For example in an embodiment active user determiner may be configured to perform step . As shown in active user determiner receives social network data . Active user determiner analyzes social network data to determine for each time t e.g. over the time period 0 . . . T a number of users designated as Y that had a number c of active associated users at that time t and that became active at that time t. For instance active user determiner may perform this function over a range of c for all c R where R may be an integer selected for a particular application. For example R may be equal to 10 or to other integer value. As shown in active user determiner generates active user data which includes the generated values for Yover predetermined ranges of c and t.

For instance shows a block diagram of a social network that includes six users according to an example embodiment. is provided to illustrate determination of values for Y. Users become active in social network with regard to an example activity at respective times indicated in for each user e.g. user became active at time t 1 t user became active at time t 2 t etc. . The following data shown in Table 1 may be received in social network data for social network in this example of an activity spreading through social network 

With regard to the example data of Table 1 active user determiner may calculate the following values for Yshown in Table 2 for each of times t 1 2 3 by generating the appropriate sums in a manner as would be understood by persons skilled in the relevant art s from the teachings herein 

In step a first number of users Nof the set of users is determined for each time t of the plurality of times t that were inactive at time t had a number of c associated active users at time t and did not become active at time t. For example in an embodiment inactive user determiner may be configured to perform step . As shown in inactive user determiner receives social network data . Inactive user determiner analyzes social network data to determine for each time t e.g. over the time period 0 . . . T a number of users designated as N that were inactive at that time t had a number c of active associated users at that time t and that did not become active at that time t. For instance inactive user determiner may perform this function over a range of c for all c R where R may be an integer selected for a particular application e.g. because the values of Ytend to decrease quickly and lose their statistical significance as c increases . For example R may be equal to 10 or other integer value. As shown in inactive user determiner generates inactive user data which includes the generated values for Nover predetermined ranges of c and t.

For instance in the example of social network shown in and the data of Table 1 inactive user determiner may calculate the following values for Nshown in Table 3 for each of times t 1 2 3 by generating the appropriate sums in a manner as would be understood by persons skilled in the relevant art s from the teachings herein 

In step a first estimate is generated of a coefficient using a maximum likelihood logistic regression based on the determined first number of users Yand the determined first number of users N. For example in an embodiment logistic regression estimator may be configured to perform step . As shown in logistic regression estimator receives the determined first number of users Yin active user data and the determined first number of users Nin inactive user data . Logistic regression estimator is configured to generate a coefficient which is representative of social correlation based on active user data and inactive user data . In an embodiment logistic regression estimator is configured to generate the coefficient using maximum likelihood logistic regression although in other embodiments logistic regression estimator may generate coefficient using other techniques as would be known to persons skilled in the relevant art s .

Logistic regression estimator may generate the coefficient in various ways. For instance shows a block diagram of logistic regression estimator according to an example embodiment. In the example of logistic regression estimator is configured to generate estimated values for coefficients and using maximum likelihood logistic regression. As shown in logistic regression estimator includes a first summer a second summer and an expression maximizer . Logistic regression estimator of may operate in various ways. For instance shows a flowchart for performing maximum likelihood logistic regression according to an example embodiment. In an embodiment logistic regression estimator of may perform flowchart . Further structural and operational embodiments will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s based on the discussion regarding flowchart . Flowchart and logistic regression estimator of are described as follows.

For example referring to social network of and the data shown in Table 1 above first summer may generate the values for Yshown in Table 4 below 

For example referring to social network of and the data shown in Table 1 above second summer may generate the values for Nshown in Table 5 below 

Expression maximizer may be configured in various ways to determine values for the coefficients and for that maximize Equation 5 as would be known to persons skilled in the relevant art s . For example many commercially available software packages and programming languages may be used to make this determination. For instance Matlab which is published by The MathWorks of Natick Mass. may be used to determine values for the coefficients and for that maximize Equation 5 as well as the R programming language.

Data modifier may be configured in various ways to modify social network data to generate modified social network data according to step of flowchart in . For instance as described above according to a shuffle test time values for users in a social network becoming active may be shuffled. In another example embodiment according to an edge reversal test the directions of associations relationships between users in a social network may be reversed. Both of these embodiments are described as follows. Note that social network data may be modified in further ways.

In a social network W w . . . w may be the set of users that are activated during the time period 0 T where each user wis first activated at a corresponding time t. After calculating values for Yand N as described in the prior subsection and generating a first estimate of coefficient the time values of the users may be shuffled. For example as shown in time value shuffle module receives social network data which includes the activation time values for each user. Time value shuffle module may shuffle the time values in any manner including in a random manner. For example time value shuffle module may select a random permutation of 1 . . . n and may set the time of activation of user wto t t performing this selection for each user w. Subsequently second values for Yand Nmay be generated that are used to generate a second estimate of coefficient . The shuffle test indicates that social influence is not present if the first and second estimates are the same or substantially close to each other in value.

A example reason that the shuffle test rules out social influence in instances generated according to the social correlation model is the following in the first estimate generated of coefficient the time stamps tare independent identically distributed i.i.d. from a distribution T over 0 T . For the second estimate of coefficient the time stamps are permutated and hence the new t values are still i.i.d. from the same distribution T. Therefore the two estimates are generated from the same distribution and lead to the same expected social correlation coefficient.

For example referring to social network of and the data listed in Table 1 shown above time value shuffle module may shuffle time values of activation for users as follows in Table 6 

In another embodiment shows a block diagram of data modifier according to an example embodiment. As shown in data modifier includes an edge reversal module . Edge reversal module is configured to reverse the directions of associations relationships between users in a social network to enable social influence to be determined according to the edge reversal test. According to the edge reversal test because social influence spreads in the direction specified by the associations in the social network reversing the direction of the associations changes the estimate of social correlation. In a similar manner as above a first estimate of the coefficient may be generated the directions of associations may be reversed and a second estimate of the coefficient may be generated. The edge reversal test indicates that social influence is not present if the first and second estimates are the same or substantially close to each other in value.

For instance shows a block diagram of social network after each a direction of each association indicator has been reversed according to an example embodiment. By reversing directions of association indicators a list of associated users for each user in social network is modified. For example as shown by comparing the direction of association indicators and are reversed. In association indicators are directed from user to users and respectively indicating that user lists users and as friends or other type of association. In association indicators are directed away from user and thus no longer define the users that user indicates as friends. Instead in after reversal of all association indicators association indicators are directed from user to users and . Thus by reversing the direction of association indicators in social network the group of users indicated as friends of user changed from users and to users and the group of friends indicated as friends of user changed from user to users and etc. In a similar manner the group of users indicated as friends of each other user in social network may have been modified due to reversing the direction of association indicators. The resulting modified association lists for users may be included in modified social network data output by data modifier .

As described above a second measure of social correlation is estimated according to step of flowchart in based on the modified social network data generated according to step . In step of flowchart this second estimate of social correlation is compared to the first estimate of social correlation generated in step to determine the presence of social influence.

In an embodiment the second estimate of social correlation may be generated by social correlation determiner in a similar manner as the first estimate is generated. As shown in social correlation determiner receives modified social network data and generates second estimate . Social correlation determiner may generate second estimate based on modified social network data in a similar manner as social correlation determiner determines first estimate based on social network data . For instance social correlation determiner may perform flowchart based on modified social network data to generate second estimate .

For example as shown in active user determiner and inactive user determiner each receive modified social network data . In a similar fashion as described above for social network data active user determiner analyzes modified social network data to determine for each time t e.g. over the time period 0 . . . T a second number of users designated as Y that had a number c of active associated users at that time t and that became active at that time t. As shown in active user determiner generates second active user data which includes the values for Ygenerated based on modified social network data over the predetermined ranges of c and t. Furthermore inactive user determiner analyzes modified social network data to determine for each time t e.g. over the time period 0 . . . T a second number of users designated as N that were inactive at that time t had a number c of active associated users at that time t and that did not become active at that time t. As shown in inactive user determiner generates second inactive user data which includes the values for Ngenerated based on modified social network data over the predetermined ranges of c and t.

For example if the shuffle test was performed by data modifier to generate modified social network data active user determiner and inactive user determiner generate Yand Nbased on the time shuffled values described above. With respect to the example of network and Table 1 shown above active user determiner and inactive user determiner generate Yand Nfor users based on the time shuffled values of Table 6. If the edge reversal test was performed by data modifier to generate modified social network data active user determiner and inactive user determiner generate Yand Nbased on the reversed associations e.g. reversed friend indications etc. described above. With respect to the example of network and Table 1 shown above active user determiner and inactive user determiner generate Yand Nfor users based on the association lists resulting from the association indicator reversals of shown in .

As shown in logistic regression estimator receives the determined second number of users Yin second active user data and the determined second number of users Nin inactive user data . Logistic regression estimator is configured to generate a second value for the coefficient which is representative of social correlation based on second active user data and second inactive user data . As described above in an embodiment logistic regression estimator may be configured to generate the second value for coefficient using maximum likelihood logistic regression although in other embodiments logistic regression estimator may generate the second value for coefficient using other techniques as would be known to persons skilled in the relevant art s . For example logistic regression estimator may be configured as shown in and described above to generate second estimate and may operate according to flowchart shown in in an embodiment.

For instance in an embodiment second values for Yand Nmay be generated e.g. by first and second summers and respectively according to steps and respectively . In first summer may receive second active user data and second summer may receive second inactive user data and may generate second values for first sum e.g. according to Equation 3 and second sum e.g. according to Equation 4 respectively based thereon. Expression maximizer may receive the second values for first sum and second sum and generate second estimate based thereon e.g. by generating second values for the coefficients and that maximize Equation 5 .

As described above in step of flowchart the second estimate of social correlation generated in step is compared to the first estimate of social correlation generated in step to determine the presence of social influence. For example as described above in an embodiment social correlation comparator in may be configured to compare first estimate to second estimate to determine the presence of social influence. As shown in social correlation comparator generates social influence indication .

Social correlation comparator may be configured in various ways. For instance shows a block diagram of social correlation comparator according to an example embodiment. As shown in social correlation comparator includes a subtractor and a threshold comparator . Subtractor is configured to determine a difference between first estimate and second estimate e.g. to determine a difference between first and second determined values of the coefficient . As shown in subtractor generates a difference value . Threshold comparator is configured to compare difference value to a predetermined threshold value to generate social influence indication . In an embodiment social influence is determined to be present in the social network if difference value is greater than the predetermined threshold value or has other predetermined relation with the predetermined threshold value. For example if first and second estimates and are relatively close together in value e.g. the difference is less than a predetermined threshold value social influence indication may indicate that social influence was not detected is not present . If first and second estimates and are relatively far apart in value e.g. the difference is greater than a predetermined threshold value social influence indication may indicate that social influence was detected is present . Any suitable predetermined threshold value may be used depending on the particular application including values such as 0.1 0.5 1.0 etc.

In another embodiment threshold comparator may not be present in social correlation comparator . In such an embodiment subtractor is configured to determine difference value as a difference between first estimate and second estimate and difference value may be output from social correlation comparator in a scaled or non scaled form as social influence indication . In such an embodiment difference value may indicate a degree of social influence in the social network which is proportional to the difference value . For example a greater amount of social influence may be present if difference value is a relatively greater value. A lesser amount of social influence may be present if difference value is a relatively lesser value.

Social influence detector system data modifier social correlation determiner social correlation comparator active user determiner inactive user determiner logistic regression estimator first summer second summer expression maximizer time value shuffle module edge reversal module subtractor and threshold comparator may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. For example social influence detector system data modifier social correlation determiner social correlation comparator active user determiner inactive user determiner logistic regression estimator first summer second summer expression maximizer time value shuffle module edge reversal module subtractor and or threshold comparator may be implemented as computer program code configured to be executed in one or more processors. Alternatively social influence detector system data modifier social correlation determiner social correlation comparator active user determiner inactive user determiner logistic regression estimator first summer second summer expression maximizer time value shuffle module edge reversal module subtractor and or threshold comparator may be implemented as hardware logic electrical circuitry.

The embodiments described herein including systems methods processes and or apparatuses may be implemented using well known servers computers such as a computer shown in . For example embodiments of social influence detector system can be implemented using one or more computers .

Computer can be any commercially available and well known computer capable of performing the functions described herein such as computers available from International Business Machines Apple Sun HP Dell Cray etc. Computer may be any type of computer including a desktop computer a server etc.

Computer includes one or more processors also called central processing units or CPUs such as a processor . Processor is connected to a communication infrastructure such as a communication bus. In some embodiments processor can simultaneously operate multiple computing threads.

Computer also includes a primary or main memory such as random access memory RAM . Main memory has stored therein control logic A computer software and data.

Computer also includes one or more secondary storage devices . Secondary storage devices include for example a hard disk drive and or a removable storage device or drive as well as other types of storage devices such as memory cards and memory sticks. For instance computer may include an industry standard interface such a universal serial bus USB interface for interfacing with devices such as a memory stick. Removable storage drive represents a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive a compact disk drive an optical storage device tape backup etc.

Removable storage drive interacts with a removable storage unit . Removable storage unit includes a computer useable or readable storage medium having stored therein computer software B control logic and or data. Removable storage unit represents a floppy disk magnetic tape compact disk DVD optical storage disk or any other computer data storage device. Removable storage drive reads from and or writes to removable storage unit in a well known manner.

Computer further includes a communication or network interface . Communication interface enables the computer to communicate with remote devices. For example communication interface allows computer to communicate over communication networks or mediums representing a form of a computer useable or readable medium such as LANs WANs the Internet etc. Network interface may interface with remote sites or networks via wired or wireless connections.

Any apparatus or manufacture comprising a computer useable or readable medium having control logic software stored therein is referred to herein as a computer program product or program storage device. This includes but is not limited to computer main memory secondary storage devices and removable storage unit . Such computer program products having control logic stored therein that when executed by one or more data processing devices cause such data processing devices to operate as described herein represent embodiments of the invention.

Devices in which embodiments may be implemented may include storage such as storage drives memory devices and further types of computer readable media. Examples of such computer readable storage media include a hard disk a removable magnetic disk a removable optical disk flash memory cards digital video disks random access memories RAMs read only memories ROM and the like. As used herein the terms computer program medium and computer readable medium are used to generally refer to the hard disk associated with a hard disk drive a removable magnetic disk a removable optical disk e.g. CDROMs DVDs etc. zip disks tapes magnetic storage devices MEMS micro electromechanical systems storage nanotechnology based storage devices as well as other media such as flash memory cards digital video discs RAM devices ROM devices and the like. Such computer readable storage media may store program modules that include computer program logic for implementing social influence detector system data modifier social correlation determiner social correlation comparator active user determiner inactive user determiner logistic regression estimator first summer second summer expression maximizer time value shuffle module edge reversal module subtractor threshold comparator flowchart flowchart and or flowchart including any one or more steps of flowcharts and and or further embodiments of the present invention described herein. Embodiments of the invention are directed to computer program products comprising such logic e.g. in the form of program code or software stored on any computer useable medium. Such program code when executed in one or more processors causes a device to operate as described herein.

The invention can work with software hardware and or operating system implementations other than those described herein. Any software hardware and operating system implementations suitable for performing the functions described herein can be used.

While various embodiments of the present invention have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only and not limitation. It will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s that various changes in form and details may be made to the embodiments described above without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims. Accordingly the breadth and scope of the present invention should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.

