---

title: System and method for multi-chip module die extraction and replacement
abstract: A system and method are provided in which a first chip in a stacked multi-chip module configuration is affixed via one or more adhesion layers to a first portion of a partitioned interposer unit. Planar partitions of the interposer are physically bonded via multiple solder “bumps,” which possess high tensile strength but low resistance to horizontal shear force or torque. A second chip is affixed via one or more adhesion layers to the second portion of the partitioned interposer. The chips may thus be separated by horizontally and oppositely shearing or twisting the first and second portions of the partitioned interposer away from one another.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08067829&OS=08067829&RS=08067829
owner: BAE Systems Information and Electronic Systems Integration Inc.
number: 08067829
owner_city: Nashua
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090429
---
The invention was made with United States Government support under Contract No. 03 C 0216. The United States Government has certain rights in this invention.

Embodiments of the present invention relate generally to integrated circuit device packaging and more specifically to multichip module packages that may have stacked chip arrangements.

When it comes to chip or integrated circuit device packaging it is often desirable and sometimes imperative to have a relatively high device packaging density. Device packaging density can be defined as the number of devices per unit package volume. To such end multichip module MCM packages are increasingly attractive for a variety of reasons. For example MCM packages which contain more than one chip per package provide increased functionality of a given package and decrease the interconnection length among chips in the package thereby reducing signal delays and access times among chips.

One common MCM package is the three dimensional stacked MCM package in which one chip is disposed on a substrate and one or more other chips are stacked successively on top of one another and the first chip. Interconnections among chips and conductive traces on the common substrate are electrically made via bond wires.

The active circuit area of first chip is covered by a passivation layer . An adhesive layer is interposed between and connects passivation layer and an interposer . Interposer is often made of a material similar in properties to first chip and second chip in order to avoid thermal expansion mismatch over temperature variations. For example if first chip and second chip are made of bulk silicon interposer should also be made of silicon. Interposer has a thickness sufficient to allow clearance and access to the bond pads along the edges of first chip . Interposer also serves as a pedestal for supporting second chip . An adhesive layer is disposed between and connects interposer and bondable surface of second chip .

Several bond wires are bonded to and between respective bonding pads on first chip and substrate . Similarly several bond wires are bonded to and between respective bonding pads on second chip and substrate .

One application in which stacked MCM packages are commonly used is space applications or applications in other environments wherein physical space is limited and tolerance to high levels of radiation required. Packages with such tolerance to high levels of radiation are referred to as hardened packages. The chips in such hardened packages are also typically hardened through the addition of redundant circuitry and or error detection and correction circuitry so that the chips function properly in high radiation environments like space. Due to the hardened nature of the chips used in such environments manufacturing costs for these chips can be inordinately expensive often tens or even hundreds of times more expensive than counterparts of equivalent complexity used in consumer applications. For example a hardened microprocessor could cost 10 000.

Unfortunately due to current methods for manufacturing an MCM package in a stacked configuration each chip or die in an MCM is so securely affixed to those above and below it that separation of that chip from the body of the MCM requires processes that are expensive require high amounts of heat or both. Thus reworking or replacing a chip or die that has failed within a stacked MCM package often results in the destruction of one or more chips immediately above or below it. This naturally multiplies the cost of the original chip failure.

Consequently it is desirable to provide an improved system and method for both manufacturing stacked MCM packages and for reworking specific failed chips or dies within such packages.

A need still exists therefore for providing an MCM package that allows the removal and or replacement of one or more failed chips or dies without inflicting concomitant damage or destruction to nearby chips that would otherwise still be functional. In particular there is a need to provide such functionality that is low in cost and allows for the removal or replacement to occur at room temperature.

According to certain embodiments of the present invention a system and method are provided in which a first chip in a stacked MCM configuration is affixed via one or more adhesion layers to a first portion of a partitioned interposer unit. Planar partitions of the interposer are physically bonded via multiple solder balls or bumps which possess high tensile strength but low resistance to horizontal shear force or torque. A second chip is affixed via one or more adhesion layers to the second portion of the partitioned interposer. The chips may thus be separated by horizontally and oppositely shearing or twisting the first and second portions of the partitioned interposer away from one another.

In the following description certain details are set forth in conjunction with the described embodiments of the present invention to provide a sufficient understanding of the invention. One skilled in the art will appreciate however that the invention may be practiced without these particular details. Furthermore one skilled in the art will appreciate that the example embodiments described below do not limit the scope of the present invention and will also understand that various modifications equivalents and combinations of the disclosed embodiments and components of such embodiments are within the scope of the present invention. Embodiments including fewer than all the components of any of the respective described embodiments may also be within the scope of the present invention although not expressly described in detail below. Finally the operation of well known components and or processes has not been shown or described in detail below to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.

The upper interposer partition is connected to second chip via adhesive layer and also soldered to lower interposer partition via solder bumps . Solder bumps as discussed above with respect to provide a high tensile strength for vertically bonding the upper and lower interposer partitions and but are easily broken via horizontal shear force or rotational torque . Lower interposer partition is in turn adhered to passivation layer via adhesive layer .

To examine the MCM package of in operation of the interposer assume that second chip has been shown to be nonoperational. This type of failure can occur at the time of the chip manufacture or through the course of operation over time. In either case it is advantageous to be able to remove and possibly replace the non operational chip.

Force line AA shows a line substantially bisecting the solder bumps . The vertical placement of line AA is arbitrary with respect to the vertical extension of the bumps. To separate upper and lower interposer partitions and a technician or end user collectively creates torsion in solder bumps by applying equal but opposing shear forces to upper and lower interposer partitions respectively parallel to line AA and the plane of substrate . The shear force thus provided to each solder bump causes the bonds formed by those solder bumps to break and allows the separation of MCM package along line AA. Because the force required to effectuate the removal of second chip is so low it can be accomplished without damaging first chip . Furthermore because the chip removal can be done at room temperature it may be performed in the same area where modules are tested allowing immediate confirmation that the first chip has not been damaged.

In certain embodiments the surface of the dies or of the interposer partitions are constructed with such shape or footprint as may easily integrate with a rotational tool such as a wrench to enable faster and more precise breaking of the bonds between the upper and lower interposer partitions. In other embodiments a technician or other user may simply separate the interposer partitions by applying the needed horizontal shear force or torque by hand.

It is to be understood that even though various embodiments and advantages of the present invention have been set forth in the foregoing description the above disclosure is illustrative only and changes may be made in detail and yet remain within the broad principles of the invention. For example variations on certain embodiments described above or depicted in the drawings may include three or more chips in a single MCM package many or all of which may be separated by interposer units in accord with the present invention. As another example certain embodiments may include additional structures affixed within the MCM package between one or more chips and a respective interposer unit. Therefore the present invention is to be limited only by the appended claims.

