---

title: Method and system for managing data in a near field communication network
abstract: A method and system for managing data between a plurality of electronic devices in a Near Field Communication (NFC) network are provided. The method is performed at a first electronic device. A request is received from a second electronic device to send context data. The context data is then represented in accordance with a context Record Type Definition (RTD). The context RTD is used for defining context data in the NFC network. The context data that is represented in accordance with the context RTD is exchanged with the second electronic device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08892032&OS=08892032&RS=08892032
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd
number: 08892032
owner_city: 
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20090608
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 a to an Indian Patent Application filed in the Indian Intellectual Property Office on Jun. 6 2008 and assigned Serial No. 1381 CHE 2008 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates generally to the management of data between a plurality of electronic devices through short range wireless communication and more particularly to a method and system for managing data between a plurality of electronic devices in a Near Field Communication NFC .

Portable electronic devices such as mobile phones and Personal Digital Assistants PDAs are frequently used for communication such as for example Short Field communication SFC Near Field Communication NFC and communication over a telecommunication network. However the use of portable electronic devices is not limited to communication. They can also be used for storing context information storing personal information aggregating information sharing data listening music and watching stored videos.

For example a user of a mobile phone can store personal information or context information in the mobile device. Context information is any information that can be used to characterize the situation of an entity. An entity is a person place or object that is considered relevant to interaction between a user and an application. Further the context information can change dynamically based on the environment of the user.

Through the use of electronic devices the user can share data such as personal information and or context information with other electronic devices. The data can be shared between two electronic devices through a telecommunication network a short range wireless communication network and the like. For example a mobile phone can share a data file with another electronic device through short range wireless communication for example short range radio Bluetooth InfraRed light IR and NFC.

For sharing data using Bluetooth or IR a user performs several manual activities such as selecting data to be sent activating a communication technique for example activating Bluetooth searching for an electronic device in the vicinity of the mobile phone selecting an electronic device to which the data is to be sent and sending the data to the selected electronic device. For the following description the term Bluetooth will also be referred as Bluetooth BT .

However in NFC which is a short range high frequency wireless communication technology a communication channel is established automatically as soon as two electronic devices are placed close proximity to one another. NFC enables the exchange of data between devices that are within 10 centimeters cm . Further NFC is a short range wireless communication technology that has evolved from a combination of contactless identification and networking technologies and is complementary to long range technologies.

Thus in NFC manual intervention for sharing and exchanging data is very minimal. Hence it is more convenient for users to share data using NFC. But currently through NFC only transfer of static data is possible. There exists no method in NFC for exchanging context information between a plurality of electronic devices. Also the information cannot be aggregated and changed dynamically between a plurality of electronic devices.

The present invention has been made to address at least the above problems and or disadvantages and to provide at least the advantages described below. Accordingly an aspect of the present invention provides a method and system for managing data between a plurality of electronic devices in an NFC.

According to one aspect of the present invention a method is provided for managing data between a plurality of electronic devices in an NFC network. The method is performed at a first electronic device. A request is received from a second electronic device to send context data. The context data is then represented in accordance with a context Record Type Definition RTD . The context RTD is used for defining context data in the NFC network. The context data that is represented in accordance with the context RTD is exchanged with the second electronic device.

According to another aspect of the present invention an electronic device is provided. The electronic device includes a processor and a transceiver. The processor represents context data based on a context RTD. The context RTD is a record type definition used for defining context data in the NFC network. The transceiver receives a request from a second electronic device to send the context data. The transceiver further enables exchange of the context data that is represented based on the context RTD with the second electronic device.

Preferred embodiments of the present invention are described in detail with reference to the accompanying drawings. The same or similar components may be designated by the same or similar reference numerals although they are illustrated in different drawings. Detailed descriptions of constructions or processes known in the art may be omitted to avoid obscuring the subject matter of the present invention.

It should be understood that the terms used to describe various embodiments are provided to merely aid the understanding of the description and that their use and definitions in no way limit the scope of the invention. Terms first second and the like are used to differentiate between objects having the same terminology and are no where intended to represent a chronological order as and where stated otherwise. A set is defined as a non empty set including at least one element.

In an embodiment of the present invention the electronic devices and are capable of communicating with each other using a telecommunication network. In another embodiment of the present invention the electronic devices and are capable of communicating with each other through short range wireless communication technology. Examples of short range wireless communication technology includes but are not limited to short range radio BT IR and NFC. Hence the electronic devices and are capable of communicating with each other through NFC technology.

In the environment a user of the electronic device exchanges context information between the electronic device and the electronic device through NFC. The different fields in which context data may be used are shown as use cases . In an embodiment of the present invention the electronic devices and are known as NFC devices. In an embodiment of the present invention the electronic device takes the role of an aggregator device. The aggregator device is a device that aggregates context data received from a plurality of devices. The aggregator device dynamically arranges context data corresponding to each of the electronic devices in a memory.

In NFC the electronic devices for example electronic devices and can communicate in three application modes. The three application modes are Peer to Peer mode Reader Writer mode and Card Emulation mode. In the Peer to Peer mode of communication both NFC devices have similar capability and there is no distinction between the NFC devices. In the Reader Writer mode of communication one of the NFC devices has the capability of the Reader Writer and the other NFC device is a simple tag. In the Card Emulation mode of communication one of the NFC devices is a reader and the other NFC device could be a simple tag. Hence the information can be exchanged through any of the application modes described above.

To transfer data in the NFC network the data is represented based on well defined NFC data formats called RTDs. The RTDs are in turn packaged in a format called NFC Data Exchange Format NDEF . Different types of RTDs in NFC standards are for example Smart Poster RTD Text RTD URI RTD Web RTD and the like.

In the Peer to Peer networks participating users devices may exchange context information with other electronic devices as shown in . Examples of context information include but are not limited to user profile current location of the user user preferences room temperature user s blood pressure user s emotion user s presence user s identity and the like. The context information can be private information associated with the users and can even vary with time and environment.

However the set of defined RTDs are not sufficient to define CA information which can be required by Peer To Peer devices and applications. Hence a context RTD can be used for exchanging and transferring context information over the NFC interface. The structure of the context RTD is explained in conjunction with and . For the sake of clarity and for the purpose of this description the context data is also referred as context information. Further the electronic device is also referred as the aggregator .

In an embodiment of the present invention the context data from different nodes and or electronic devices is aggregated at a single node and the node is called the aggregator. The aggregated context data at the aggregator is represented by an extended form of Context RTD. For example in and a context environment can be established by exchanging context information through easily readable tags. The aggregator device for example electronic device can capture the context information from various electronic devices and aggregate them for the use of other devices.

In an embodiment of the present invention when a user of the electronic device enters the context environment the context data associated with the electronic device and the context environment are exchanged over the NFC interface. The use case in the shows a plurality of cases where the NFC technology can be used. Examples of NFC uses sharing files payment ticketing and the like. The context information can be exchanged through a stored NFC tags as per a NFC pre defined format RTD.

In when the user of the electronic device touches the electronic device the context information of the user for example location floor and room information of the user are updated in the environment and other context information is updated in the electronic device . Thereafter the context data can be used for managing different applications using one or more short range wireless communication networks. For example the context information gathered by electronic device is used by different applications communicating over BT and a BT profile is derived for such a context transfer operation.

The transceiver receives a request from one or more electronic devices to send context data. Hence when the transceiver receives the request the processor represents the context data in the context RTD format. Thereafter the transceiver exchanges the context data that is represented based on the context RTD with the one or more electronic devices. In an embodiment of the present invention the transceiver transmits the processed context data to other electronic devices. Similarly the transceiver receives the context data from the other electronic devices.

In an embodiment of the present invention the RTD can be used individually and or can be part of an NDEF message. The RTD has a plurality of header fields that represent a plurality of information that is associated with data. The plurality of information associated with the data includes control information of a record a type of data a payload length of the data an identity field and the like. Hence the plurality of information associated with the context data is stored in a plurality of byte fields for example a byte field a byte field a byte field a byte field a byte field and a byte field .

The byte field represents a first byte that includes control information for the NDEF message associated with the context data. The byte field includes a plurality of information that is included in a plurality of bit fields. Each of the plurality of bit fields signifies specific information associated with the context data. In an embodiment of the present invention the byte field is divided into six bit fields represented as MB MF CF SR IL and TNF.

Each of the six bit fields signifies specific information for example MB represents Message Begin ME represents Message End CF represents Chunk Flag SR represents Short Record IL represents ID Length field TNF represents Type Name Format. The different bit fields can represent different values for representing the data. For example the TNF can have the value 0x01 or 0x04.

The byte field represents type length of the type field shown in byte field . The Payload length byte fields for example the byte fields and give the length of the context payload that is given in . The byte field represents ID length of the data. Hence the byte field provides the length value of the ID. The byte field represents the Type of the payload. For example the Type of the payload is CA for context data.

The byte field represents an ID field. The ID field is used to identify the context. For example the ID field is used to identify location user presence or other sensor data. Further the byte field represents payload associated with the type of data. For example the byte field represents CA specific payload. For the sake of clarity summary of the different fields used in the Context RTD is provided in Table A. In Table A a first column represents field names. The second column has the description of corresponding field.

The details of the types for context RTD are provided in Table B shown below. In Table B a first column represents Record Name and a second column gives the Description of the corresponding record name.

The TLV for each control can vary based on the context data. Hence the TLV Privacy Level field the byte field is used to indicate privacy level expected for exchange of the context data. A field is a TLV Time Stamp field. The field is used to express time at which the context data was captured. The field represents the TLV Validity. Further the field indicates a time duration for which the context data will be valid. The context data after the TLV validity time expires is not assumed valid.

A field represents a TLV Location Specific data. The field indicates parameters that are considered along with location context data given in the payload. For example a relative GPS coordinate associated with the context data can be represented with this field. A field represents a TLV Trust Level. The field is used to indicate trust level that needs to be satisfied by the electronic device while reading the context data in the payload.

A field represents TLV Action to be taken on the context data. The field indicates action that a first electronic device expects a second electronic device to take. A field represents a TLV Other Control fields. The field is used to mention other control fields that are specific to the electronic device and or application that will use the context data.

A field represents a TLV Schema Format. The field is used to indicate schema or format in which the context data is represented. Thereafter a field represents a context data. The field represents the context data in a pre agreed format. For the sake of clarity summary of the different fields for the context payload is provided in Table C. In Table C a first column represents field names. The second column has the description of corresponding field.

At step the method is initiated. At step the method receives a request from a second electronic device to send context data. In an embodiment of the present invention the request is sent when the first electronic device and the second electronic device are in close proximity of one another. At step the context data in the first electronic device is represented based on a context RTD. In an embodiment the context RTD is a record type definition used for defining context data in the NFC network.

At step the context data that is represented based on the context RTD is exchanged with the second electronic device. In an embodiment of the present invention the exchange of the context data includes interchanging one or more NFC RTD with the second electronic device. In another embodiment of the present invention the context data is also encapsulated with control parameters in the context RTD prior to exchanging the context data.

The context data assembled in the context RTD can be used by different applications. In an embodiment of the present invention the different applications include BT applications. The applications are used based on context data represented using context RTD and or one or more BT profiles. The context data received from a plurality of electronic devices can also be aggregated in an electronic device for example the aggregator .

In an embodiment of the present invention the electronic device receives context data from a plurality of electronic devices through one or more wireless communication networks. In another embodiment of the present invention one or more wireless communication networks include one or more short range wireless communication networks. Further the context data in the context RTD format is aggregated based on the context data received from each of the plurality of electronic devices. For example the context information received from the first electronic device is maintained corresponding to the first electronic device number.

In an embodiment of the present invention the NFC network between the first electronic device and the second electronic device is based on a peer to peer mode of communication. In another embodiment of the present invention the NFC network between the first electronic device and the second electronic device is based on a reader writer mode of communication.

In an embodiment of the present invention the electronic devices are associated with one or more sensors such as GPS RFID and temperature sensors. A P2P network can communicate with another P2P network through a wireless network or a wire lined communication network. For example the P2P network and the P2P network can communicate with each other through a wireless communication network.

In the environment the aggregator is a device or a computer that aggregates a plurality of information and can communicate with other networks and electronic devices. For example the electronic device or the aggregator communicates with a sensor network using a wired LAN USB or a wireless Wi Fi BT NFC connection. Further the aggregator also communicates with the electronic device through NFC BT and the like.

The aggregator aggregates information received from all the sensors and arrange in Context RTD format as shown in . Further the electronic device also stores context data associated with a plurality of users. When an NFC device for example the electronic device establishes a communication link with the electronic device context data associated with the user of the electronic device can be exchanged between the electronic devices and .

In an embodiment of the present invention the electronic device also shares updated information with a plurality of electronic devices associated with it through a communication link. Therefore the electronic device after establishing a communication link with the electronic device exchanges the updated context data aggregated in the electronic device . Hence when the user of the NFC device enters the region of the P2P network the electronic devices in the P2P network can exchange context data with the electronic device based on the updated information received from the electronic device .

In an embodiment of the present invention the context data represented in a context RTD format can be shared between an NFC device and a non NFC device using short range wireless communication networks. In an embodiment of the present invention the non NFC device can be a BT enabled device. Hence the context data represented in a context RTD can also be accessed by the non NFC devices using different profiles.

At step the initiator sends REQUEST CONTEXT INFORMATION primitive to the target . The target composes appropriated response using a Context RTD and then sends the context data as RECEIVE CONTEXT INFORMATION message to the initiator in step . Hence the context information can be shared and exchanged between the electronic devices using context RTD in the NFC network.

Further the context RTD can also be used for other short range wireless communication networks applications. For example the context RTD can be used for enabling BT applications. In an embodiment of the present invention the communication between the electronic devices for sharing the context information is performed using a BT profile or a WiFi transfer mechanism. In an embodiment of the present invention a third device source requests context information using a GET CONTEXT INFO primitive over BT wireless technology. In an embodiment of the present invention the request for context information is done after proper authentication of electronic devices.

At step the source request for context data from a receiver sink using GET CONTEXT INFO . The sink then encapsulates the context data through a BT profile and sends the context data using the SEND CONTEXT INFO primitive. At step and the sink and the source share context information CA RTD . The message primitives are representative in nature and can be expanded or added based on a use case.

For exchange of context data between two NFC enabled devices and or for communicating the context data over BT various Application Programming Interfaces APIs are used. Some of the APIs are defined below for reference. However the invention is not limited to the APIs listed below and a person ordinarily skilled in the art can use any other API s.

RECEIVE CONTEXT INFORMATION The API is used to receive context data when the context data is requested or pushed by another device.

SEND CONTEXT INFORMATION The API is used to send context data when the context data is requested and or when sending as unsolicited messages over BT.

SUBSCRIBE CONTEXT INFORMATION The API is used when a periodic update of some context data is expected from an NFC BT enabled entity.

The sender device and the receiver device have respective CA profiles and that enable the devices to exchange shared context information. The sender device sends the context information using CA profile encapsulating Context RTD in the primitives SEND CONTEXT INFORMATION GET CONTEXT INFORMATION and SUBSCRIBE CONTEXT INFORMATION which is in turn used by the CA application.

User visits an exhibition fair in a particular city. The exhibition fair has plurality of stalls for example 5000 stalls. User has an interest in Nano technology material. Hence User updates his mobile phone with Nano technology context. Thereafter User carries an NFC enabled mobile phone for example the electronic device into the exhibition fair. There User establishes an NFC with the aggregator for example the electronic device at an entrance .

Thereafter at step the aggregator sends a request to the electronic device about context data using REQUEST CONTEXT INFO primitive. At step User sends context data in a context RTD format to the aggregator using RECEIVE CONTEXT INFO primitive. At step the context data and preferences of Nano technology associated with User are captured and updated in a data management system.

The aggregator also captures and assembles information about a plurality of stalls in the exhibition fair. For example a shop sends the context information to the aggregator using a short range wireless communication profile for example a BT profile. At step the shop sends the context information using SEND CONTEXT INFO BT . At step User gets information about the shop .

Thereafter User will be prompted through BT profile and connectivity if he she crosses a stall of Bio tech sensors related to Nano technology. Therefore the context data can be requested and received based on the interest of User and preferences. The context data can be received at step and sent at step based on the REQUEST CONTEXT INFO primitive and RECEIVE CONTEXT INFO primitive. At step when User crosses the stalls in the exhibition fair the context data is exchanged between the shop and User electronic device. Further User also gets the specific information as per the interest through NFC.

In addition User may also receive regular prompts about different users who have visited the same stall for example User . These exchange happen using Context RTD over other carriers such as BT or WiFi. The exchange is shown at step and step . Hence this enables a virtual social networking in an ad hoc real time fashion. The message sequence diagram is shown in .

As per the example discussed above User preferences are stored on his mobile device as a ContextRTD as represented in Table D. Table D represents ContextRTD at User mobile device when he is entering the premises of the exhibition. Although Web Ontology Language OWL is used in the Table D as a representation format for context RTD information it will be apparent to the person skilled in the art that representation format such as XML RDF and RDFS can also be used.

The REQUEST and RECEIVE CONTEXT INFO primitives are used to exchange the context information at the entrance. After the context information is exchanged a system stores and updates a relevant database along with aggregated context data. Hence at a particular location for example at Shop a system at Shop recognizes the interest of the User and pushes the context information as a BT Profile which is shown in Table E. Table E is a representative context RTD of Shop which specializes in Nano Technologies.

There may be multiple instances of this context RTD which can be shared based on the events updates that are generated. In this case a generic ContextRTD is generated and sent to the system at Shop when the system does not know specific interest of User . After receiving the context information the electronic device at User analyzes received information and generates relevant alterations for User .

Alerts are sent to User stating information about presence of Nano Technology related information at Shop . Thereafter on receiving the alerts User decides to visit Shop . At the entrance of Shop User exchanges his context information to over the NFC enabled device using the REQUEST and RECEIVE primitives. The associated ContextRTD is shown in Tables D and F. Table F represents ContextRTD exchanged based on User Interest.

Once the context information is exchanged the system at User electronic device the system at the Shop and aggregator at the entrance update the relevant database and generate appropriate notification and events for other users. For example in this case User whose interest is similar to that of User may be notified of the presence of User at Shop over BT or WiFi. When User crosses User the system generates an event at the device of User stating that User in close vicinity. This event leads to an exchange of context information over the BT profile using the BT Context Profile.

Various embodiments of the present invention described above provide the following advantages. The present invention provides a method for exchanging context data in an NFC network. The method also defines a new RTD for representing context data for NFC. Further the method in presence of multiple sensor information aggregates context data in a context RTD format in the electronic device. The method enables exchange of context information between a plurality of electronic devices in NFC. The method also provides exchange of context information between an NFC enabled electronic device and an NFC Tag in the NFC. The invention can also provide context information over other short range wireless communication networks for example BT by reuse of the Context RTD using a BT profile. Further the method maintains interoperability between the NFC context RTD and the BT applications. The use of standardized form of context data facilitates dynamic updating of context information and exchange of context information which can further be used by various applications. This definition and exchange of context RTD and usage over various wireless networking environment assists in creating a social networking among plurality of users. The method further provides contextual information exchanges and CA services in NFC.

While the invention has been shown and described with reference to certain preferred embodiments thereof it will understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and detail may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims.

