---

title: Compounds, formulations, and methods for ameliorating telangiectasis
abstract: Methods, compounds, and topical formulations for treatment of telangiectasias are disclosed. The methods comprise topically applying a composition comprising an α-adrenergic receptor agonist to telangiectatic skin. Amelioration of telangiectasia symptoms begins within minutes after topical application of a disclosed composition. A single application can significantly lessen telangiectasia discoloration for at least about 2 hours.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08231885&OS=08231885&RS=08231885
owner: Galderma Laboratories Inc.
number: 08231885
owner_city: Fort Worth
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090820
---
The present application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 449 079 filed Jun. 8 2006 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 838 563 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 853 585 filed May 25 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 439 241 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 473 611 filed May 27 2003. The contents of these applications are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.

Telangiectasias are highly prevalent skin disorders. Telangiectasias are visible small red purple or blue surface blood vessels that can be located on the face upper chest neck or other parts of the body. Telangiectatic blood vessels which can include swollen blood vessels spider veins red dermal patches purple dermal patches or blue dermal patches are abnormal and are not necessary for any essential body function.

Telangiectatic blood vessels can appear with or without a preceding or concurrent skin or internal disease. Telangiectasias can develop anywhere within the body but can be most easily seen in the skin. Telangiectasias include essential or primary telangiectasias which include blood vessel dilations of unknown etiology. Generalized essential telangiectasias GET exhibit a widespread distribution pattern over the body. Other primary telangiectases include angioma serpiginosum ataxia telangiectasia angiomas and spider naevi. Some other examples of conditions syndromes diseases and disorders which can include telangiectasias are CREST Syndrome acronym for Calcinosis Raynaud s phenomenon Esophageal dysfunction Sclerodactyl and Telangiextasis hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia Osler Weber Rendu Syndrome Ataxia telangiectasia rosacea also known as acne rosacea basal cell carcinoma scleroderma unilateral nevoid telangiectasia Cutis marmorata telangiectatica congenita and hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia.

A telangiectasia can be a symptom of rosacea However rosacea also encompasses erythema and is accordingly a phenomenon distinct from a telangiectasia.

Current treatments for ameliorating telangiectasias include laser therapy and electro optical synergy ELOS which combines intense pulsed optical energy and conducted bipolar radiofrequency RF energy into a single pulse Sadick N S et al. J. Drugs Dermatolog. 4 181 186 2005 .

The present inventors have developed formulations and treatment methods for mitigating telangiectasias. The methods include topically applying a formulation comprising an adrenergic receptor agonist to an affected area of the skin of a subject in need of treatment of a telangiectasia. Topical application of an adrenergic receptor agonist leads to a reduction in the visibility of telangiectatic blood vessels directly at and adjacent to the site of application. A formulation which can be used in the methods can further comprise additional components such as an excipient. In various aspects an adrenergic receptor agonist can be applied to the skin in a topical skin formulation that is effective for mitigating a telangiectasia but does not induce serious systemic side effects in the patient.

Accordingly in various aspects the present teachings disclose methods of ameliorating telangiectatic skin. The methods comprise topically administering to the skin of a subject in need of treatment a composition comprising at least one active ingredient selected from an adrenergic receptor agonist a prodrug thereof a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof a hydrate thereof a solvate thereof and a combination thereof. In various aspects a composition is administered in an amount effective for mitigating a telangiectasia. An amount effective for mitigating a telangiectasia can be an amount locally effective for amelioration of telangiectasia upon topical administration. In addition in various configurations an effective amount of an adrenergic receptor agonist for ameliorating a telangiectasia can be non restrictive with regard to other skin care and cosmetic products. Accordingly a formulation comprising an adrenergic receptor agonist can be compatible with e.g. separate application of make up. Furthermore in some configurations an adrenergic receptor agonist can be comprised by a skin care or cosmetic product so that the user can simultaneously receive the benefits of both suppressing a telangiectasia as well as masking coloring and or cleansing skin by application of a single product. In various configurations a subject can be a mammal such as a human a farm animal or a companion animal.

In various configurations an adrenergic receptor agonist which can be comprised by a composition described herein can be any adrenergic receptor agonist as well as active solvates hydrates prodrugs such as esters stereoisomers including enantiomers polymorphic forms and crystalline forms thereof. In addition various formulations can comprise at least one 1 adrenergic receptor agonist at least one 2 adrenergic receptor agonist or a combination thereof. In various configurations an adrenergic receptor agonist can be a selective 1 adrenergic receptor agonist a selective 2 adrenergic receptor agonist or an adrenergic receptor agonist which is non selective for either type of adrenergic receptor. Accordingly some adrenergic receptor agonists which can be used in the disclosed methods and compositions include amphetamine apraclonidine brimonidine clonidine dexmedetomidine dextroamphetamine dopamine I dobutamine ephedrine epinephrine epinine N methyl dopamine ethylnorepinephrine guanabenz guanfacine levarterenol lofexidine mephentermine metaraminol methamphetamine methoxamine methyldopa methylnorepinephrine methylphenidate mivazerol mitodrine moxonidine naphazoline norepinephrine norphenylephrine oxymetazoline pemolinepropylhexedrine phenylephrine phenylpropanolamine propylhexedrine tetrahydrozoline tizanidine and xylometazoline.

In various configurations an adrenergic receptor agonist which can be comprised by a formulation and used in methods of the present teachings can have the structure of a compound shown below 

In some configurations an adrenergic receptor agonist which can be comprised by a formulation and used in methods of the present teachings can have the structure of a compound shown in Formula I below 

In some configurations an adrenergic receptor agonist which can be comprised by a formulation and used in methods of the present teachings can have the estructur of a compound shown in Formula II below 

In some configurations an adrenergic receptor agonist which can be comprised by a formulation and used in methods of the present teachings can have the structure of a compound shown in Formula III below 

In some configurations an adrenergic receptor agonist which can be comprised by a formulation and used in methods of the present teachings can have the structure of a compound shown in Formula IV below 

In various aspects a composition of the present teachings comprising an adrenergic receptor agonist can further comprise a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. In some aspects a composition can be a spray a mist a low viscosity aqueous and or alcoholic liquid an aerosol a lotion a foam a gel a cream an ointment a paste an unguent an emulsion a liposomal suspension a colloid or a combination thereof while in other aspects a composition can be formulated as a cosmetic a foundation a moisturizer or a sun blocking agent. As used herein the term low viscosity aqueous liquid refers to a liquid having a viscosity of less than about 3 centipoise at 25 C.

In some configurations a composition comprising an adrenergic receptor agonist can further comprise a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier such as an aqueous gel comprising water and a water gelling amount of a pharmaceutically acceptable gelling agent selected from a carbomer a glycerine polyacrylate and a mixture thereof and can be a spray a mist an aerosol a lotion a foam a gel a cream an ointment a paste an unguent an emulsion a liposomal suspension a colloid or a combination thereof. A cream or an ointment can comprise stearic acid stearyl alcohol cetyl alcohol glycerin and or water.

In various configurations a topical composition can comprise an adrenergic receptor agonist a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or a combination thereof in an amount from at least about 0.001 w w up to about 10 w w. In some configurations a composition can have a pH of from about 5 to about 8. In various aspects a composition of the present teachings can further comprise a preservative a local anesthetic and or a skin humectant.

In some aspects a topical composition for mitigating a telangiectasia can comprise at least one first active ingredient selected from an adrenergic receptor agonist a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and a combination thereof and at least one second active pharmaceutical ingredient selected from an antibiotic a non antibiotic chemically modified tetracycline a steroid a retinoid and an anti fungal agent. In various configurations a second active pharmaceutical ingredient can be azelaic acid benzoyl peroxide isotretinoin an antibiotic a non antibiotic chemically modified tetracycline a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof or a combination thereof. In some configurations an antibiotic can be clindamycin doxycycline erythromycin metronidazole sulfacetamide tetracycline or a combination thereof. Furthermore a non antibiotic chemically modified tetracycline can be for example a tetracycline derivative such as for example 4 de dimethylamino tetracycline GMT 1 tetracyclinonitrile CMT 2 6 demethyl 6 deoxy 4 de dimethylamino tetracycline CMT 3 4 de dimethylamino 7 chlorotetracycline CMT 4 tetracycline pyrazole CMT 5 4 hydroxy 4 de dimethylamino tetracycline CMT 6 4 de dimethylamino 12.alpha. deoxytetracycline CMT 7 6 .alpha. deoxy 5 hydroxy 4 de dimethylamino tetracycline CMT 8 4 de dimethylamino 12.alpha. deoxyanhydrotetracycline CMT 9 or 4 de dimethylamino minocycline CMT 10 see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 7 014 858 to Ashley Islam M. M. et al. Amer. J. Path. 163 1557 1566 2003 . A topical composition can comprise the first active ingredient in a prescription strength concentration or in an over the counter strength concentration. In some configurations of methods of the present teachings an antibiotic can be administered in an amount effective for treatment of telangiectasia.

In various aspects of the present teachings an amount of a composition effective for amelioration of a telangiectasia can be an amount which ameliorates a telangiectasia within about 2 minutes after the administering within about 5 minutes after the administering or within about 10 minutes after the administering. In various other aspect an amount effective for amelioration of a telangiectasia can be an amount which ameliorates the telangiectasia for up to about 2 hours up to about 4 hours up to about 8 hours up to about 12 hours up to about 18 hours up to about 24 hours or longer.

Aspects of a telangiectasia which can be ameliorated using the present methods include for example swelling of blood vessels enlarged dilated and or visible spider veins and red purple or blue patches on the skin resulting from dilated blood vessels.

In certain aspects of the present teachings the present inventors have developed pharmaceutical packages for treatment of symptoms of telangiectasia. A package of these aspects can comprise a first active ingredient selected from at least one adrenergic receptor agonist a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and a combination thereof in an amount effective for amelioration of a telangiectasia. A package can further comprise a second active pharmaceutical ingredient selected from azelaic acid benzoyl peroxide isotretinoin an antibiotic a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and a combination thereof and furthermore can comprise a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier a container and instructions for use of the topical composition.

In some configurations methods of treating symptoms of telangiectasia can comprise selecting a first active ingredient on the basis of it having adrenergic receptor agonist activity and topically administering to the skin of a patient in need of treatment a composition comprising a first active ingredient selected from at least one adrenergic receptor agonist a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and a combination thereof in an amount effective for amelioration of a telangiectasia. In other configurations methods of treating telangiectasias can comprise selecting the first active ingredient on the basis of it having telangiectasia ameliorating activity or on the basis of having both adrenergic receptor agonist activity and telangiectasia ameliorating activity.

The present inventors describe herein compounds compositions formulations and methods for treating telangiectasias. The methods comprise topically administering to the skin directly upon or adjacent to a telangiectasia a composition comprising an adrenergic receptor agonist. No special preparation of the skin is required prior to administration of a composition although cleansing of the skin prior to administration can enhance effectiveness.

As used herein the term telangiectasia refers to a visible permanent abnormal dilation of blood vessels such as arterioles and venules. A visible blood vessel is a blood vessel visually discernable as a line to an observer without the aid of magnifying equipment other than spectacles normally used by the observer . In various aspects a telangiectatic blood vessel can have a diameter of at least about 0.5 mm. Telangiectasias can be associated with numerous conditions syndromes diseases and disorders. For example a facial telangiectasia can be associated with age sun exposure and alcohol use. Other diseases disorders conditions and syndromes associated with telangiectasias include in non limiting example scleroderma hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia Olser Rendu syndrome Ataxia Telangiectasia spider angioma cutis marmorata telangiectasia congenita Bloom syndrome Klippel TrenaunayWeber syndrome Sturge Weber disease Xeroderma pigmentosa Nevus flammeus Generalized essential telangiectasias GET angioma serpiginosum ataxia telangiectasia spider naevi CREST Syndrome hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia Osler Weber Rendu Syndrome ataxia telangiectasia basal cell carcinoma scleroderma unilateral nevoid telangiectasia and cutis marmorata telangiectatica congenita. In addition in some aspects a telangiectasia can be associated with rosacea while in certain alternative aspects a telangiectasia can be a telangiectasia not associated with rosacea.

 adrenergic receptor agonists of the present teachings include any adrenergic receptor agonist known to skilled artisans. In some aspects an adrenergic receptor agonist can be an adrenergic receptor agonist selective for 1 adrenergic receptors an adrenergic receptor agonist selective for 2 adrenergic receptors or an adrenergic receptor agonist non selective for either 1 or 2 adrenergic receptors. As used herein a selective 1 adrenergic receptor agonist is an agonist for which the ECwith respect to an 1 adrenergic receptor is less than the ECwith respect to an 2 adrenergic receptor while a selective 2 adrenergic receptor agonist is an agonist for which the ECwith respect to an 2 adrenergic receptor is less than the ECwith respect to an 1 adrenergic receptor wherein the ECfor an agonist is defined as the molar concentration of the agonist which produces 50 of the maximum possible response of a receptor to that agonist. Some non limiting examples of adrenergic receptor agonists which can be used in the present compositions and methods include amphetamine apraclonidine brimonidine clonidine clonidine dexmedetomidine dextroamphetamine dopamine I dobutamine ephedrine epinephrine epinine N methyl dopamine ethylnorepinephrine guanabenz guanfacine levarterenol lofexidine mephentermine metaraminol methamphetamine methoxamine methyldopa methylnorepinephrine methylphenidate mivazerol mitodrine moxonidine naphazoline norepinephrine norphenylephrine oxymetazoline pemolinepropylhexedrine phenylephrine phenylpropanolamine propylhexedrine tetrahydrozoline tizanidine xylometazoline 8 bromo quinoxalin 6 yl 4 5 dihydro 1H imidazol 2 yl amine 8 bromo quinoxalin 5 yl 4 5 dihydro 1H imidazol 2 yl amine 5 bromo 3 methyl quinoxalin 6 yl 4 5 dihydro 1H imidazol 2 yl amine 5 bromo 2 methoxy quinoxalin 6 yl 4 5 dihydro 1H imidazol 2 yl amine 4 5 dihydro 1H imidazol 2 yl 8 methyl quinoxalin 6 yl amine and 4 5 dihydro 1H imidazol 2 yl quinoxalin 5 yl amine 

Compositions of the present teachings include one or more adrenergic receptor agonists prodrugs thereof pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof hydrates thereof solvates thereof and combinations thereof.

wherein each of R R and Rcan be independently hydrogen halogen alkyl or alkoxy wherein the alkyl can be an unsubstituted alkyl such as a C Calkyl and the alkoxy can be an unsubstituted alkoxy such as a C Calkoxy each of Rand Ris independently hydrogen alkyl or alkoxy each of Rand Ris independently hydrogen nitro alkyl or alkoxy wherein the alkyl can be an unsubstituted alkyl such as a C Calkyl and the alkoxy can be an unsubstituted alkoxy such as a C Calkoxy and wherein a substituent designated with a line segment extending into a ring structure indicates that the substitutent can attach to the ring at any available position on the ring. In a certain aspects in compounds of Formula I Rand Rcan both be hydrogen. In another other aspects Rand Rcan both be hydrogen.

wherein each of R R and Ris independently hydrogen halogen alkyl or alkoxy wherein the alkyl can be an unsubstituted alkyl such as a C Calkyl and the alkoxy can be an unsubstituted alkoxy such as a C Calkoxy each of Rand Rcan be independently hydrogen alkyl or alkoxy wherein the alkyl can be an unsubstituted alkyl such as a C Calkyl and the alkoxy can be an unsubstituted alkoxy such as a C Calkoxy and each of Rand Rcan be independently hydrogen nitro alkyl or alkoxy wherein the alkyl can be an unsubstituted alkyl such as a C Calkyl and the alkoxy can be an unsubstituted alkoxy such as a C Calkoxy. In some aspects in compounds of Formula Ia Rand Rcan both be hydrogen. In other aspects Rand Rcan both be hydrogen. In still other aspects in compounds of Formula Ia R and Rcan both be hydrogen and Rcan be a halogen such as bromo.

wherein each of R R and Ris independently hydrogen halogen alkyl or alkoxy wherein the alkyl can be an unsubstituted alkyl such as a C Calkyl and the alkoxy can be an unsubstituted alkoxy such as a C Calkoxy. In one aspect the compounds of Formula Ib R and Rcan both be hydrogen and Rcan be a halogen such as a bromo.

wherein Ris hydrogen halogen alkyl or alkoxy. In various aspects the alkyl can be an unsubstituted alkyl such as a C Calkyl the alkoxy can be C Calkoxy such as an unsubstituted alkoxy Rcan be a halogen such as bromo and each of Rand Rcan be independently hydrogen alkyl or alkoxy wherein the alkyl can be C Calkyl such as an unsubstituted alkyl and the alkoxy can be C Calkoxy such as an unsubstituted alkoxy. In some aspects the compounds of Formula Ic at least one of Rand Rcan be a hydrogen.

wherein Ris hydrogen halogen alkyl or alkoxy wherein the alkyl can be an unsubstituted alkyl such as a C Calkyl and the alkoxy can be an unsubstituted alkoxy such as a C Calkoxy. In some aspects Rcan be a halogen such as bromo.

wherein each of B B and Bis independently hydrogen hydroxy or methoxy each of Band Bis independently hydrogen or alkyl wherein the alkyl can be an unsubstituted alkyl such as a C Calkyl and wherein a substituent designated with a line segment extending into a ring structure indicates that the substitutent can attach to the ring at any available position on the ring.

The compounds of the present teachings can be prepared in accordance with well known synthetic procedures for example using the general synthetic procedures set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 3 890 319 issued Jun. 17 1975 and U.S. Pat. No. 4 029 792 issued Jun. 14 1977 both of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference. Scheme 1 below illustrates one method to synthesize compounds of Formula I.

Compounds of the present teachings can be synthesized by reaction of the appropriate quinoxalines 15 with thiophosgene 20 to form corresponding isothiocyanates 25. The reaction with thiophosgene can be carried out in aqueous solution or in dilute aqueous hydrochloric acid at room temperature in a period of about 2 hours. Alternatively the thiophosgene 20 dissolved in a water immiscible solvent such as chloroform can be added to a basic aqueous solution sodium carbonate of quinoxalines 15 and stirred for about two hours. In the first alternative isothiocyanates 25 precipitate from the reaction mixture. Precipitation can be completed by neutralization with excess aqueous base. Precipitated isothiocyanates 25 can be recovered by filtration and dissolved in a suitable solvent e.g. chloroform to form a solution. The solution can be dried e.g. over MgS0 filtered and concentrated to yield the isothiocyanates 25.

Isothiocyanates 25 can be treated with an excess of the appropriately substituted ethylene diamine to form the corresponding 3 quinoxalin 6 yl thioureas 35. Isothiocyanates 25 can be reacted with an excess e.g. 5 moles to 1 mole of ethylene diamine 30 in a suitable solvent e.g. diethyl ether benzene chloroform or dioxane. The reaction can be carried out at room temperature for about 2 hours. 3 Quinoxalin 6 yl thioureas 35 precipitate and can be recovered by filtration and washing the filter cake with solvent.

Cyclization of 3 quinoxalin 6 yl thioureas 35 to afford compounds of the present teachings 10 can be effected by heating a suspension of thioureas 35 with mercuric or cupric oxide in a suitable organic solvent e.g. ethanol. The mercuric or cupric oxide can be replaced by an organic soluble mercuric or cupric salt e.g. mercuric or cupric acetate. The reaction mixture can be filtered to remove the mercuric or cupric sulfide by product and the filtrate can be concentrated to give compounds 10 in crude form. Compounds 10 can be recrystallized as the free base or converted to an acid addition salt by conventional reaction with a suitable acid. In certain cases cyclization can be effected by simply refluxing the thioureas 35 in a suitable organic solvent e.g. methanol in the absence of mercuric or cupric oxide.

Quinoxalines 15 can be synthesized by well known synthetic procedures for example procedures disclosed in J. A. JOULE ET AL. HETEROCYCLIC CHEMISTRY 189 224 3rd ed. 1995 hereby incorporated herein by reference.

In certain aspects compounds of the present teachings can be delivered to the affected area of the skin in a pharmaceutically acceptable topical carrier. As used herein a pharmaceutically acceptable topical carrier can be any pharmaceutically acceptable formulation that can be applied to the skin surface for topical dermal intradermal or transdermal delivery of a pharmaceutical or medicament. The combination of a pharmaceutically acceptable topical carrier and a compound of the present teachings is termed a topical formulation. Topical formulations can be prepared by mixing a compound of the present teachings with a topical carrier according to well known methods in the art for example methods provided by standard reference texts such as REMINGTON THE SCIENCE AND PRACTICE OF PHARMACY 1577 1591 1672 1673 866 885 Alfonso R. Gennaro ed. 19th ed. 1995 Ghosh T. K. et al. TRANSDERMAL AND TOPICAL DRUG DELIVERY SYSTEMS 1997 both of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

A topical carrier useful for topical delivery of compounds of the present teachings can be any carrier known in the art for topically administered pharmaceuticals for example but not limited to pharmaceutically acceptable solvents such as a polyalcohol or water emulsions either oil in water or water in oil emulsions such as creams or lotions foams micro emulsions gels ointments liposomes powders and aqueous solutions or suspensions.

In some aspects a topical carrier used to deliver a compound of the present teachings can be an emulsion gel or ointment. Emulsions such as creams and lotions are suitable topical formulations for use in the present teachings. An emulsion as used herein is defined as a dispersed system comprising at least two immiscible phases one phase dispersed in the other as droplets ranging in diameter from about 0.05 micron to about 100 microns. In some aspects an emulsion can further comprise an emulsifying agent.

Emulsions such as creams and lotions that can be used as topical carriers and their preparation are disclosed in REMINGTON THE SCIENCE AND PRACTICE OF PHARMACY 282 291 Alfonso R. Gennaro ed. 19th ed. 1995 hereby incorporated herein by reference.

In some other aspects a topical carrier used to deliver an adrenergic receptor agonist a prod rug thereof a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof a hydrate thereof a solvate thereof or a combination thereof can be a gel such as a two phase gel or a single phase gel. Gels are defined herein as semisolid systems consisting of suspensions of small inorganic particles or large organic molecules interpenetrated by a liquid. When the gel mass comprises a network of small discrete inorganic particles it is classified as a two phase gel. Single phase gels consist of organic macromolecules distributed uniformly throughout a liquid such that no apparent boundaries exist between the dispersed macromolecules and the liquid. Suitable gels for use in the are disclosed in REMINGTON THE SCIENCE AND PRACTICE OF PHARMACY 1517 1518 Alfonso R. Gennaro ed. 19th ed. 1995 hereby incorporated herein by reference. Other suitable gels are disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 387 383 issued May 14 2002 U.S. Pat. No. 6 517 847 issued Feb. 11 2003 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 468 989 issued Oct. 22 2002 each of which patents is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

In some aspects a composition of the present teachings can comprise a polymer thickener gelling agent . A polymer thickener can be any polymer known to skilled artisans. Non limiting examples of polymer thickeners include hydrophilic and hydroalcoholic gelling agents such as those used in the cosmetic and pharmaceutical industries. Some non limiting examples of a hydrophilic or hydroalcoholic gelling agent include CARBOPOL B.F. Goodrich Cleveland Ohio HYPAN Kingston Technologies Dayton N.J. NATROSOL Aqualon Wilmington Del. KLUCEL Aqualon Wilmington Del. and STABILEZE ISP Technologies Wayne N.J. . In some aspects the gelling agent can comprise between about 0.2 to about 4 by weight of the composition. More particularly the compositional weight percent range for CARBOPOL can be between about 0.5 w w to about 2 w w while the weight percent range for NATROLSOL and KLUCEL can be between about 0.5 to about 4 . In various configurations the compositional weight percent range for both HYPAN and STABILEZE can be between 0.5 w w to about 4 w w.

 CARBOPOL is one of numerous cross linked acrylic acid polymers that are given the general adopted name carbomer. These polymers dissolve in water and form a clear or slightly hazy gel upon neutralization with a caustic material such as sodium hydroxide potassium hydroxide triethanolamine or other amine bases. KLUCEL is a cellulose polymer that is dispersed in water and forms a uniform gel upon complete hydration. Other examples of gelling polymers include hydroxyethylcellulose cellulose gum MVE MA decadiene crosspolymer PVM MA copolymer or combinations thereof.

In some other aspects a topical carrier used to deliver an adrenergic receptor agonist or a salt thereof can be an ointment. Ointments are defined herein as oleaginous semisolids that contain little if any water. An ointment can be hydrocarbon based such as a wax petrolatum or gelled mineral oil. Various ointments are well known in the art and are disclosed in REMINGTON THE SCIENCE AND PRACTICE OF PHARMACY 1585 1591 Alfonso R. Gennaro ed. 19th ed. 1995 hereby incorporated herein by reference.

In some other aspects a topical carrier used in a topical formulation of the present teachings can be an aqueous solution or suspension. Well known ophthalmic solutions and suspensions can be suitable topical carriers. Examples of suitable aqueous topical formulations are described in REMINGTON THE SCIENCE AND PRACTICE OF PHARMACY 1563 1576 Alfonso R. Gennaro ed. 19th ed. 1995 hereby incorporated herein by reference. Other examples of suitable aqueous topical carrier systems are disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 424 078 issued Jun. 13 1995 U.S. Pat. No. 5 736 165 issued Apr. 7 1998 U.S. Pat. No. 6 194 415 issued Feb. 27 2001 U.S. Pat. No. 6 248 741 issued Jun. 19 2001 U.S. Pat. No. 6 465 464 issued Oct. 15 2002 all of which patents are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

In various aspects the pH of an aqueous topical formulation can be within the range of from about 4 to about 8 or from about 6.3 to about 6.5. In some aspects an aqueous topical formulation can further comprise a pH stabilizing buffering agent. In some aspects a buffering agent can be present in an aqueous topical formulation in an amount of from about 0.05 w w to about 10 w w. Non limiting examples of buffering agents include acetate buffers citrate buffers phosphate buffers lactic acid buffers borate buffers and amine buffers such as triethylamine TEA buffers.

In some aspects a composition of the present teachings can include one or more tonicity adjusting agents. Some non limiting examples of tonicity adjusting agents include sodium chloride potassium chloride mannitol dextrose and glycerin. In non limiting example a tonicity adjusting agent can be present in an aqueous topical formulation in an amount ranging from about 0.1 w w to about 1 w w such as for example 0.45 w w.

In some aspects an aqueous topical formulation can comprise one or more viscosity adjusting agents which can be added to yield a formulation having a viscosity in the range of from about 15 centipoise cps to about 25 cps. Some non limiting examples of viscosity adjusting agents which can be used in various compositions include polyvinyl alcohol povidone hydroxypropyl methyl cellulose poloxamers carboxymethyl cellulose or hydroxyethyl cellulose.

In certain aspects an aqueous topical formulation of the present teachings can further comprise a preservative such as benzalkonium chloride or chlorine dioxide a viscosity adjusting agent such as polyvinyl alcohol and a buffer system such as sodium citrate and citric acid.

Topical formulations of the present teachings can comprise pharmaceutically acceptable excipients such as in non limiting example those described in REMINGTON THE SCIENCE AND PRACTICE OF PHARMACY 866 885 Alfonso R. Gennaro ed. 19th ed. 1995 Ghosh T. K. et al. TRANSDERMAL AND TOPICAL DRUG DELIVERY SYSTEMS 1997 hereby incorporated herein by reference and can include without limitation protectives adsorbents demulcents emollients preservatives antioxidants moisturizers buffering agents solubilizing agents skin penetration agents and surfactants.

Suitable protectives and adsorbents include but are not limited to dusting powders zinc sterate collodion dimethicone silicones zinc carbonate aloe vera gel and other aloe products vitamin E oil allantoin glycerin petrolatum and zinc oxide.

Suitable demulcents include but are not limited to benzoin hydroxypropyl cellulose hydroxypropyl methylcellulose and polyvinyl alcohol.

Suitable emollients include but are not limited to animal and vegetable fats and oils myristyl alcohol alum and aluminum acetate.

Suitable preservatives include but are not limited to quaternary ammonium compounds such as benzalkonium chloride benzethonium chloride cetrimide dequalinium chloride and cetylpyridinium chloride mercurial agents such as phenylmercuric nitrate phenylmercuric acetate and thimerosal alcoholic agents for example chlorobutanol phenylethyl alcohol and benzyl alcohol antibacterial esters for example esters of parahydroxybenzoic acid and other anti microbial agents such as chlorhexidine chlorocresol benzoic acid and polymyxin. Chlorine dioxide ClO such as stabilized chlorine dioxide can be used as a preservative for use with topical formulations of the present teachings. The term stabilized chlorine dioxide is well known in the industry and by those skilled in the art. Stabilized chlorine dioxide as used herein includes one or more chlorine dioxide precursors such as one or more chlorine dioxide containing complexes and or one or more chlorite containing components and or one or more other entities capable of decomposing or being decomposed in an aqueous medium to form chlorine dioxide. U.S. Pat. No. 5 424 078 issued Jun. 13 1995 hereby incorporated herein by reference discloses a form of stabilized chlorine dioxide and a method for producing same which can be used in topical formulations of the present teachings. The manufacture or production of certain stabilized chlorine dioxide products is described in U.S. Pat. No. 3 278 447 hereby incorporated herein by reference. A commercially available stabilized chlorine dioxide which can be utilized in the practice of the present methods is the proprietary stabilized chlorine dioxide of BioCide International Inc. of Norman Okla. sold under the trademark Puroqene or Purite . Other suitable stabilized chlorine dioxide products include that sold under the trademark DuraKlor by Rio Linda Chemical Company Inc. and that sold under the trademark Antheium Dioxide by International Dioxide Inc.

Suitable antioxidants include but are not limited to ascorbic acid and its esters sodium bisulfite butylated hydroxytoluene butylated hydroxyanisole tocopherols and chelating agents like EDTA and citric acid.

Suitable moisturizers include but are not limited to glycerin sorbitol polyethylene glycols urea and propylene glycol.

Suitable buffering agents include but are not limited to acetate buffers citrate buffers phosphate buffers lactic acid buffers triethanolamine and borate buffers.

Suitable solubilizing agents include but are not limited to quaternary ammonium chlorides cyclodextrins benzyl benzoate lecithin and polysorbates.

Suitable skin penetration agents include but are not limited to ethyl alcohol isopropyl alcohol octylphenylpolyethylene glycol oleic acid polyethylene glycol 400 propylene glycol N decylmethylsulfoxide fatty acid esters e.g. isopropyl myristate methyllaurate glycerol monooleate and propylene glycol monooleate and N methylpyrrolidone.

Topical compositions of the present invention may also contain sunscreens. An example of a sunscreen useful in the invention is titanium dioxide.

Topical formulations of the present teachings can include pharmaceutical compounds or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts for example but not limited to topical corticosteroids and other anti inflammatory agents such as betamethasone diflorasone amcinonide fluocinolone mometasone hydrocortisone prednisone and triamcinolone local anesthetics and analgesics such as camphor menthol lidocaine and dibucaine and pramoxine antifungals such as ciclopirox chloroxylenol triacetin sulconazole nystatin undecylenic acid tolnaftate miconizole clotrimazole oxiconazole griseofulvin econazole ketoconozole and amphotericin B antibiotics and anti infectives such as mupirocin erythromycin clindamycin gentamicin polymyxin bacitracin and silver sulfadiazine and antiseptics such as iodine povidine iodine benzalkonium chloride benzoic acid chlorhexidine nitrofurazine benzoyl peroxide hydrogen peroxide hexachlorophene phenol resorcinol and cetylpyridinium chloride.

Dosages and dosing frequency can be determined by a skilled artisan such as a trained medical professional. Dosage can depend on the activity of an adrenergic receptor agonist the characteristics of the particular topical formulation and the identity and severity of the dermatologic disorder treated or prevented.

In general an adrenergic receptor agonist comprised by a composition can be present in a formulation in an amount of from about 0.001 w w up to about 10 w w from about 0.002 w w up to about 1 w w or from about 0.0025 w w up to about 0.5 w w.

To ameliorate a telangiectasia the topical formulations of the present teachings can be topically applied directly to the affected area in any conventional manner well known in the art. As used herein ameliorating a telangiectasia includes lessening the severity of a telangiectasia. Lessening severity of a telangiectasia can include complete or partial disappearance of a telangiectasia as determined by the recipient patient or an external observer.

In various aspects a composition of the present teachings can be topically applied by any known method in the art for example with the aid of a dropper or applicator stick as a mist via an aerosol applicator via an intradermal or transdermal patch or by simply spreading a formulation onto the affected area with fingers a sponge a pad or wipes. Generally the amount of a topical formulation applied to an affected skin area ranges from about 0.1 g cmto about 5 g cmof skin surface area or from about 0.2 g cmto about 0.5 g cmof skin surface area. In various aspects an application of a topical composition can noticeably ameliorate a telangiectasia within about 2 minutes following application within about 5 minutes following application or within about 10 minutes following application. In some aspects a composition can be maximally effective at about 30 minutes after application and the ameliorative effects can last up to about 2 hours up to about 4 hours up to about 8 hours up to about 12 hours up to about 18 hours or up to about 24 hours or longer. Accordingly in some aspects a composition can be topically applied to skin at a site of telangiectasia symptoms once per day twice per day or three or more times per day.

The formulations of the present teachings can be used in combination with other treatments and medications to provide more effective treatment of a telangiectasia. In some aspects a topical formulation can be used in combination with treatment regimens and medications for treatment of dermatologic disorders such as those disclosed in THE MERCK MANUAL 811 830 Keryn A. G. Lane et al. eds. 17th ed. 2001 hereby incorporated herein by reference.

In some aspects a formulation composition or compound can be used in combination with another medicament or treatment. In some configurations a combination can be administered to a subject in a sequence and within a time interval such that they can act together to treat or prevent formation of a telangiectasia.

Any suitable route of administration can be employed to deliver the additional treatment or medication including but not limited to oral intraoral rectal parenteral topical epicutaneous transdermal subcutaneous intramuscular intranasal sublingual buccal intradural intraocular intrarespiratory or nasal inhalation.

In one aspect the topical formulations can be used in combination with systemic administration of antibiotics or retinoids including but not limited to orally dosed antibiotics such as tetracycline minocin minocycline erythromycin and doxycycline and orally dosed retinoids such as isotretinoins e.g. Accutane or Roaccutance .

In other aspects the topical formulations disclosed herein can be used in combination with other topical treatments including but not limited to topical formulations consisting of metronidizole hydrogen peroxide benzoyl peroxide lipoic acid and azelaic acid and sulfur preparations topically dosed antibiotics such as metronidazole clindamycin and erythromycin topical retinoids such as tretinoin adapalene tazarotene or topical steroids.

In other aspects topical formulations described herein can be used in combination with other therapies such as for example mixed light pulse therapy photoderm pulsed dye laser treatment or electrosurgery.

Certain aspects of the present teachings include an article of manufacture which comprises a topical formulation comprising at least one adrenergic receptor agonist a prod rug thereof a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof a hydrate thereof a solvate thereof or a combination thereof in a suitable container with labeling and instructions for use. The container can be in non limiting example a dropper or tube with a suitable small orifice size such as an extended tip tube made of any pharmaceutically suitable material or a single or multiple use pouch such as for example a DelPouch Cardinal Health .

In various aspects a topical formulation can be filled and packaged into a plastic squeeze bottle tube or pouch containing pads or wipes. Suitable container closure systems for packaging a topical formulations of the present teachings are commercially available for example from Wheaton Plastic Products 1101 Wheaton Avenue Millville N.J. 08332.

In some configurations a formulation can be packaged with written material such as for example instructions a pamphlet or a package label. The labeling instructions can explain how to administer a topical formulation in an amount and for a period of time sufficient to treat a telangiectasia.

The following examples are provided for illustrative purposes only and are not to be construed as limiting the present teachings scope in any manner. The description of an article a composition or a method in an example does not imply that the described article or composition has or has not been produced or that that the described method has or has not been performed regardless of verb tense.

To a stirred solution of 6 amino 5 bromoquinoxaline hydrobromide 10 g in distilled water 150 ml is added thiophosgene 3 ml . The solution is stirred for two hours at room temperature and the resultant precipitate is collected by filtration washed with water and dried to afford 5 bromo 6 isothiocyanato quinoxaline.

The 5 bromo 6 isothiocyanato quinoxaline 3.5 g. is directly dissolved in benzene 400 ml and added dropwise to a well stirred solution of ethylene diamine 15 g. in benzene 50 ml . During a period of about two hours an oil separates as a lower layer. The upper benzene layer is poured off and the oil is washed with diethyl ether and then dissolved in methanol 500 ml . The methanolic solution is refluxed until hydrogen sulfide evolution ceases. The methanolic solution is concentrated in vacuo to a volume of approximately 100 ml upon which a yellow solid precipitates. The precipitate is collected by filtration and recrystallized from methanol to afford of 5 Bromo quinoxalin 6 yl 4 5 dihydro 1H imidazol 2 yl amine m.p. 250 251 C.

An aqueous solution topical formulation comprises 5 Bromo quinoxalin 6 yl 4 5 dihydro 1H imidazol 2 yl amine L tartrate brimonidine tartrate 0.15 w w Puriteg 0.005 w w stabilized chlorine dioxide as a preservative and the inactive ingredients boric acid calcium chloride magnesium chloride potassium chloride purified water sodium borate sodium carboxymethylcellulose sodium chloride with hydrochloric acid and or sodium hydroxide to adjust the pH to 5.6 to 6.6. The osmolality is in the range of 250 350 mOsmol kg.

An aqueous solution topical formulation comprises 5 Bromo quinoxalin 6 yl 4 5 dihydro 1H imidazol 2 yl amine L tartrate brimonidine tartrate 0.15 w w benzalkonium chloride 0.005 w w. as a preservative and the inactive ingredients boric acid calcium chloride magnesium chloride potassium chloride purified water sodium borate sodium carboxymethylcellulose sodium chloride with hydrochloric acid and or sodium hydroxide to adjust the pH to 5.6 to 6.6. The osmolality is in the range of 250 350 mOsmol kg.

To make the formulation the stearyl alcohol and the white petrolatum were melted on a steam bath and warmed to about 75 degrees C. The other ingredients previously dissolved in the water and warmed to 75 degrees C. were then added and the mixture was stirred until it congealed. The mixture was then allowed to cool with stirring and brimonidine tartrate was then added as a concentrated solution. confirm that this is an actual working example

To make the formulation the stearyl alcohol and white wax were mixed together on a steam bath. The cholesterol was then added and stirred until it completely dissolved. The white petrolatum was then added and mixed. The mixture was removed from the bath and stirred until it congealed. With continuous stirring brimonidine tartrate was added as a concentrated slurry. confirm that this is an actual working example

The ingredients are mixed together and aqueous sodium hydroxide is slowly added to the mixture until a pH of about 7 is reached and the gel is formed.

The ingredients are mixed together and stirred. Triethanolamine is added until a pH of about 7 is attained.

The water is heated to 80 85 C. after which stearic acid is added. Once the stearic acid is melted the laureth 23 is added melted and mixed well. Next triethanolamine is added and the resulting composition is mixed well for about 30 minutes to form a soap. The resulting soap is then cooled to about 65 C. after which sodium lauryl sulfate is added. The composition is then mixed well. Next the BHT and the Brimonidine tartrate are added followed by mixing. The resulting composition is then cooled to room temperature and the fragrance added. The product is packaged with the Aeron A 31 propellant in an aerosol can using conventional techniques and mechanically shaken for 5 minutes. The product dispenses as a cone shaped spray that deposits onto the skin as a layer of rich lather that quickly covers a wide area of skin and begins to relieve symptoms within about 2 minutes after application.

Preparation these foam formulations are prepared and packaged as in Example 9. In each case the product dispenses as a cone shaped spray that deposits onto the skin as a layer of rich lather that quickly covers a wide area of skin and begins to relieve symptoms within about 2 minutes after application.

The aqueous phase is prepared as follows. The water is heated to 80 C. after which palmitic acid is added. Once the palmitic acid is melted the laureth 23 is added melted and mixed well. Next triethanolamine is added and the resulting composition is mixed well for about 15 minutes to form a soap.

Stearyl alcohol mineral oil lauramide DEA cetyl dimethicone copolyol PEG 150 distearate and BHT are mixed and heated at 55 C. to form the oil phase. The oil phase is combined with the aqueous phase at 80 C. and mixed well for about 15 minutes. The resulting mixture is then cooled to room temperature and the imidazolidinyl urea methylparaben and propylparaben are added and then mixed well. The brimonidine tartrate is then added and mixed well. Next the fragrance is added followed by gentle mixing. The aloe is then dissolved in make up water and added with slow mixing to form the product formulation which is then packaged in an aerosol can as described in Example 9.

The product dispenses as a cone shaped spray that deposits onto the skin as a layer of rich lather that quickly covers a wide area of skin and begins to relieve symptoms within about 2 minutes after application.

The alcohol phase is prepared by dissolving ethyl ester of PVM MA copolymer in ethanol after which dimethicone is added and mixed well. The aqueous phase is prepared by heating the water to 65 C. after which the PVPN A copolymer is added and mixed well. The oil phase is prepared by mixing the 0leth 20 cocamide MEA and steareth 16 at 60 C. to form a blend. The oil phase is then added to the aqueous phase at 65 C. and mixed well. Next the methylparaben is added to the mixture followed by mixing after which the aminomethyl propanol stearalkonium chloride and panthenol are added and mixed until uniform. The resulting composition is cooled to room temperature after which the alcohol phase is added and mixed well. The fragrance is then added and mixed gently to form the product. The product is then packaged in an aerosol can.

The product dispenses as a cone shaped spray that deposits onto the skin as a layer of rich lather that quickly covers a wide area of skin and begins to relieve symptoms within about 2 minutes after application.

This example illustrates treatment of a telagiectasia of a subject by topical application of an adrenergic receptor agonist.

In this example a 59 year old woman with facial telangiectasias cleanses her face using ordinary soap and water cleaning. After toweling her face dry and further air drying she uses a cotton swab to apply topically Alphagan P Allergan 0.15 brimonidine tartrate in isotonic saline and citrate buffer pH 6.3 6.5 directly to the telangiectatic skin. As observed without magnification the telangiectasias in the swabbed area begin to fade in visibility within about 15 minutes after application of the Alphagan P and become nearly entirely faded within about 30 minutes. The telangiectasias remain faded for about 18 hr.

This example illustrates treatment of a telagiectasia of a subject by topical application of an adrenergic receptor agonist.

In this example a 56 year old male has small spider veins on both cheeks on his face. He applies a few drops of Alphagan Ponto each cheek and distributes it using his fingertips. He begins to see relief of his spider veins within 10 minutes. He considers the spider veins to be imperceptible within about 30 minutes. The effects last about 24 hours in this individual.

This example illustrates treatment of a telagiectasia of a subject by topical application of an adrenergic receptor agonist.

In this example an adult female has extensive spider veins on her chin. She applies topically a solution comprising brimonidine to the skin on her chin using cotton to. The spider veins become imperceptible within 30 minutes much to the delight of the subject. The effects last at least 18 hour in this individual.

The phrase pharmaceutically acceptable salt s as used herein means those salts of compounds of the present teachings that are safe and effective for topical use in mammals and that possess the desired biological activity. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts include salts of acidic or basic groups present in compounds of the present teachings. Pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts include but are not limited to hydrochloride hydrobromide hydroiodide nitrate sulfate bisulfate phosphate acid phosphate isonicotinate acetate lactate salicylate citrate tartrate pantothenate bitartrate ascorbate succinate maleate gentisinate fumarate gluconate glucaronate saccharate formate benzoate glutamate methanesulfonate ethanesulfonate benzensulfonate p toluenesulfonate and pamoate i.e. 1 1 methylene bis 2 hydroxy 3 naphthoate salts. Certain compounds disclosed herein can form pharmaceutically acceptable salts with various amino acids. Suitable base salts include but are not limited to aluminum calcium lithium magnesium potassium sodium zinc and diethanolamine salts. For a review on pharmaceutically acceptable salts see BERGE ET AL. 66 J. PHARM. SCl. 1 19 1977 incorporated herein by reference.

The term pharmaceutically acceptable topical formulation as used herein means any formulation which is pharmaceutically acceptable for topical delivery of a compound. A topical formulation can comprise at least a compound of the present disclosure. The choice of topical formulation will depend on several factors including the nature of the symptoms to be treated or prevented the physiochemical characteristics of the particular compound of the present teachings and of other excipients present their stability in the formulation available manufacturing equipment and cost constraints.

As used herein the term prodrug refers to a drug precursor which is inactive but can be activated by a biological or biochemical process such as for example enzymatic hydrolysis.

As used herein a therapeutically effective amount of a compound means an amount of the compound that is effective to ameliorate a telangiectasia.

As used herein the term subject means any animal such as a mammal to which will be or has been administered compounds or topical formulations of the present teachings. The term mammal as used herein encompasses any mammal. Examples of mammals include but are not limited to cows horses sheep pigs cats dogs mice rats rabbits guinea pigs monkeys and humans.

The term analog refers to a chemical compound that is structurally similar to a parent compound and has chemical properties or pharmaceutical activity in common with the parent compound. Analogs include but are not limited to homologs i.e. where the analog differs from the parent compound by one or more carbon atoms in series positional isomers compounds that differ by interchange of one or more atoms by a different atom for example replacement of a carbon atom with an oxygen sulfur or nitrogen atom and compounds that differ in the identity of one or more functional groups for example the parent compound differs from its analog by the presence or absence of one or more suitable substituents. Suitable substituents include but are not limited to C C alkyl C C alkenyl C C alkynyl aryl C C heteroaryl C C heterocycloalkyl C C cycloalkyl O C C alkyl O C C alkenyl O C C alkynyl O aryl CN OH oxo halo C O OH COhalo O CO halo CF N NO NH NH C C alkyl N C C alkyl NH aryl N aryl N C C alkyl aryl CO NH CO NH C C alkyl CO N C C alkyl CO NH aryl CO N aryl O CO NH NHOH NOH C C alkyl NOH aryl O CO NH C C alkyl O CO N C C alkyl O CO NH aryl O CO N aryl CHO CO C C alkyl CO aryl C O O C C alkyl C O O aryl O CO C C alkyl O CO aryl O CO O C C alkyl O CO O aryl S C C alkyl S C C alkenyl S C C alkynyl S aryl S O C C alkyl S O C C alkenyl S O C C alkynyl and S O aryl S O C C alkyl S O C C alkenyl S O C C alkynyl and S O aryl. One of skill in the art can readily choose a suitable substituent based upon the stability and pharmacological activity of a compound.

The term alkyl means a saturated monovalent unbranched or branched hydrocarbon chain. Examples of alkyl groups include but are not limited to C C alkyl groups such as methyl ethyl propyl isopropyl and C C alkyl groups such as 2 methyl 1 propyl 2 methyl 2 propyl 2 methyl 1 butyl 3 methyl 1 butyl 2 methyl 3 butyl 2 2 dimethyl 1 propyl 2 methyl pentyl 3 methyl 1 pentyl 4 methyl 1 pentyl 2 methyl 2 pentyl 3 methyl 2 pentyl 4 methyl 2 pentyl 2 2 dimethyl 1 butyl 3 3 dimethyl 1 butyl 2 ethyl 1 butyl butyl isobutyl t butyl pentyl isopentyl neopentyl and hexyl heptyl and octyl. An alkyl group can be unsubstituted or substituted with one or two suitable attachments.

The term alkenyl means a monovalent unbranched or branched hydrocarbon chain having one or more double bonds therein. The double bond of an alkenyl group can be unconjugated or conjugated to another unsaturated group. Suitable alkenyl groups include but are not limited to C C alkenyl groups such as vinyl allyl butenyl pentenyl hexenyl butadienyl pentadienyl hexadienyl 2 ethylhexenyl 2 propyl 2 butenyl 4 2 methyl 3 butene pentenyl. An alkenyl group can be unsubstituted or substituted with one or two suitable substituents.

The term alkynyl means monovalent unbranched or branched hydrocarbon chain having one or more triple bonds therein. The triple bond of an alkynyl group can be unconjugated or conjugated to another unsaturated group. Suitable alkynyl groups include but are not limited to C C alkynyl groups such as ethynyl propynyl butynyl pentynyl hexynyl methylpropynyl 4 methyl 1 butynyl 4 propyl 2 pentynyl and 4 butyl 2 hexynyl. An alkynyl group can be unsubstituted or substituted with one or two suitable substituents.

The term aryl means a monocyclic or polycyclic aromatic group comprising carbon and hydrogen atoms. Examples of suitable aryl groups include but are not limited to phenyl tolyl anthracenyl fluorenyl indenyl azulenyl and naphthyl as well as benzo fused carbocyclic moieties such as 5 6 7 8 tetrahydronaphthyl. An aryl group can be unsubstituted or substituted with one or two suitable substituents. In some aspects an aryl group can be a monocyclic ring wherein the ring comprises 6 carbon atoms referred to herein as C aryl .

The term heteroaryl means a monocyclic or polycyclic aromatic ring comprising carbon atoms hydrogen atoms and one or more heteroatoms preferably 1 to 3 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulfur. As is well known to those skilled in the art heteroaryl rings have less aromatic character than their all carbon counter parts. Thus for the purposes of the invention a heteroaryl group need only have some degree of aromatic character. Illustrative examples of heteroaryl groups include but are not limited to pyridinyl pyridazinyl pyrimidyl pyrazyl triazinyl pyrrolyl pyrazolyl imidazolyl 1 2 3 and 1 2 4 triazolyl pyrazinyl pyrimidinyl tetrazolyl furyl thienyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl phenyl isoxazolyl and oxazolyl. A heteroaryl group can be unsubstituted or substituted with one or two suitable substituents. Preferably a heteroaryl group is a monocyclic ring wherein the ring comprises 2 to 5 carbon atoms and 1 to 3 heteroatoms referred to herein as C C heteroaryl .

The term cycloalkyl means a non aromatic monocyclic or polycyclic ring comprising carbon and hydrogen atoms. A cycloalkyl group can have one or more carbon carbon double bonds in the ring so long as the ring is not rendered aromatic by their presence. Examples of cycloalkyl groups include but are not limited to C C cycloalkyl groups such as cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl and cycloheptyl and saturated cyclic and bicyclic terpenes and C C cycloalkenyl groups such as cyclopropenyl cyclobutenyl cyclopentenyl cyclohexenyl and cycloheptenyl and unsaturated cyclic and bicyclic terpenes. A cycloalkyl group can be unsubstituted or substituted by one or two suitable substituents. Preferably the cycloalkyl group is a monocyclic ring or bicyclic ring.

The term heterocycloalkyl means a non aromatic monocyclic or polycyclic ring comprising carbon and hydrogen atoms and at least one heteroatom preferably 1 to 4 heteroatoms selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulfur. A heterocycloalkyl group can have one or more carbon carbon double bonds or carbon heteroatoms double bonds in the ring as long as the ring is not rendered aromatic by their presence. Examples of heterocycloalkyl groups include aziridinyl pyrrolidinyl pyrrolidino piperidinyl piperidino piperazinyl piperazino morpholinyl morpholino thiomorpholinyl thiomorpholino tetrahydrofuranyl tetrahydrothiofuranyl tetrahydropyranyl and pyranyl. A heterocycloalkyl group can be unsubstituted or substituted with one or two suitable substituents. Preferably the heterocycloalkyl group is a monocyclic or bicyclic ring more preferably a monocyclic ring wherein the ring comprises from 2 to 6 carbon atoms and from 1 to 3 heteroatoms referred to herein as C C heterocycloalkyl.

The term halogen means fluorine chlorine bromine or iodine. Correspondingly the term halo means fluoro chloro bromo and iodo.

As used herein the terms treatment and treating refer to an amelioration or reversal of a disease or disorder or at least one discernible sign or symptom thereof. In some aspects treatment or treating can refer to an amelioration or reversal of at least one measurable physical parameter related to the disease or disorder being treated not necessarily discernible by the subject. Treatment or treating can also refer to inhibiting or slowing the progression of a disease or disorder either physically e.g. stabilization of a discernible symptom physiologically e.g. stabilization of a physical parameter or both.

As used herein an effective amount of an adrenergic receptor agonist is an amount effective to treat telangiectasia i.e. reduce locally the visibility of the dilated blood vessels following topical administration. The amount of the adrenergic receptor agonist in a topical formulation will vary depending upon which alpha agonist is employed but can be in the range of about 0.001 w w up to about 10 w w of the formulation. In various aspects the amount administered can be an amount that covers the affected area. In certain aspects covering an affected area can comprise applying a formulation to affected skin manually by dabbing or brushing on with an applicator which can be any type of applicator known to skilled artisans such as in non limiting example a cottontipped stick.

As used herein carbomer is the USP designation for various polymeric acids that are dispersible but insoluble in water. When the acid dispersion is neutralized with a base a clear stable gel is formed. Carbomer 934P is physiologically inert and is not a primary irritant or sensitizer. Other carbomers include 910 940 941 and 1342.

In certain aspects the present teachings disclose methods of treating a telangiectasia comprising topically administering to the skin of a subject in need of such treatment a compound of a formula 

All citations e.g. scientific journal publications patents and other reference material mentioned herein are hereby incorporated herein by reference to the same extent as if each individual citation was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference. One of ordinary skill in the art can make many variations and modifications to the above described aspects of the present teachings without departing from the spirit or scope of the appended claims. Accordingly all such variations and modifications are within the scope of the appended claims. In addition specific examples and aspects described above are illustrative only and are not intended to limit the scope of the claims.

