---

title: Apparatus and method of sniper localization
abstract: An apparatus and method of sniper localization includes an internal clock; an acoustic sensor positioned in a known location and detecting pressure waves; a first processor determining the trajectory of the supersonic projectile, where the first processor includes a shock wave threshold detector receiving time series information and recording arrival times of shock wave components of the pressure waves; a blast threshold detector receiving the time series information and recording arrival times and amplitude information of blast wave components of the pressure waves; a discrimination processor discriminating between a blast wave, a shock wave, or neither, and storing arrival times of each of the potential blast wave components classified as the blast wave; and a localization estimation processor calculating an estimated trajectory of the projectile based on the blast wave and the shock wave arrival times and calculating an estimated firing position of the projectile.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08194501&OS=08194501&RS=08194501
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08194501
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20091124
---
The embodiments herein may be manufactured used and or licensed by or for the United States Government without the payment of royalties thereon.

The embodiments herein generally relate to law enforcement technologies and security and more particularly to techniques for determining the origin and direction of travel of supersonic projectiles.

Systems and methods are known that can determine the general location of the sniper and trajectory of supersonic projectiles such as bullets and artillery shells by measuring parameters associated with the shockwave generated by a projectile. Current systems however generally require a distributed array of acoustic sensors to detect the arrival times amplitudes and frequency characteristics of a projectile s shockwave and the muzzle blast from a firearm. In addition such systems typically require real time operating systems e.g. UNIX LINUX etc. and generally require an elaborate time synchronization mechanism so that all the deployed sensors have a common time reference to determine the exact time of arrival for both shockwave and the muzzle blast for supersonic gun fire with common reference time frame.

Conventional systems typically employ an antenna with a plurality of acoustic sensors which can be relatively closely spaced e.g. 1 meter apart or widely dispersed e.g. mounted on a vehicle or carried by soldiers on a battlefield with each sensor measuring shockwave pressure omni directionally at its respective location. One exemplary antenna may include for example a total of seven omni directional microphones with six microphones distributed over the surface of a sphere approx. diameter 1 m and the seventh microphone located in the center of the sphere. Other exemplary antennae employ four microphones arranged in a tetrahedron formation that are amenable to carry on by a person. In general the microphones in existing systems are arranged in an array configuration and their output is collected by a common data collection unit with a common time reference. Additionally existing array based sniper localization systems require the orientation of the array with respect to true north to be determined in order to estimate the location of the sniper and the trajectory of the bullet.

Such array based sensors systems however are less suitable for man wearable systems. In addition when the sensors are distributed time synchronization among the sensors is critical. If an operating system that is not a real time operating system is employed e.g. Windows CE operating system the synchronization among the sensors is not guaranteed. As a result the time of arrival estimates of different events e.g. shockwave and the muzzle blast from a firearm could be off by 1 2 seconds making the localization of the firearm impossible.

In view of the foregoing an embodiment herein provides a system comprising several acoustic sensors distributed over an area for determining the trajectory of a supersonic projectile and firing position of the trajectory. Each acoustic sensor comprising an internal clock an acoustic sensor positioned in a known location and encountering pressure waves generated by the supersonic projectile passing proximate to the acoustic sensor the acoustic sensor comprising a transducer collecting pressure wave information and generating pressure wave information signals in response to the pressure waves the pressure wave information signals having a time series information signal calibrated to the internal clock a first processor processing the time series information signal to provide parameter information for determining the trajectory of the supersonic projectile the first processor comprising a shock threshold detector receiving the time series information and recording arrival times of shock wave components of the pressure waves a blast threshold detector receiving the time series information and recording arrival times and amplitude information of potential blast wave components of the pressure waves a discrimination processor discriminating the potential blast wave components to classify each of the potential blast wave components as a blast wave a shock wave or neither and storing arrival times of each of the potential blast wave components classified as the blast wave and a localization estimation processor calculating an estimated trajectory of the projectile based on the blast wave and the shock wave arrival times and calculating an estimated firing position of the projectile.

In such a system each acoustic sensor would determine the time difference of arrival TDOA between the muzzle blast and shockwave time of arrivals. These measured TDOAs from several acoustic sensors are used to estimate the location of the sniper and the trajectory of the bullet. In such a system the localization estimation processor may calculate an initial miss angle gamma the angle between the trajectory and the line joining the sensor and the firing position and may estimate and calculate the estimated trajectory of the projectile and the estimated firing position of the projectile from the initial gamma estimate. Additionally the initial gamma estimate may equal 0.01. In addition the localization estimation processor may estimate a minimum and a maximum distance of the estimated firing position of the projectile. Furthermore the maximum distance of the estimated firing position of the projectile may be set to a maximum detection range of the acoustic sensor. Moreover the maximum distance of the estimated firing position of the projectile may be set to 500 meters.

Furthermore the localization estimation processor may calculate the trajectory vector further it may calculate hacek over using further it may calculate the firing position tilde over Z using hacek over and TDOAs which is further used to estimate the miss angle circumflex over which is further utilized to compute in a continuous loop until the

Another embodiment herein also provides a method for estimating a firing position of a supersonic projectile the projectile producing a pressure wave the pressure wave comprising at least a shock wave and a blast wave the method comprising positioning a single acoustic sensor in a known location generating a pressure wave information signal at the acoustic sensor in response to the pressure wave filtering unwanted harmonics in the pressure wave information signal converting the filtered pressure information signal into a time series signal recording shock wave arrival times of shock wave components of the pressure wave recording blast wave arrival times of blast wave components of the pressure wave determining a shock wave arrival time of the shock wave components and a blast wave arrival time of the blast wave components and calculating an estimated firing position of the projectile based on the shock wave arrival time and the blast wave arrival times.

According to such a method calculating an estimated firing position of the projectile may comprise calculating an initial gamma estimate and calculating the estimated firing position of the projectile from initial gamma estimate. In addition the initial gamma estimate may equal 0.01. Furthermore calculating an estimated firing position of the projectile may comprise estimating a minimum and a maximum distance of the estimated firing position of the projectile. Moreover calculating an estimated firing position of the projectile may comprise calculating

Another embodiment herein also provides a method for estimating a sniper position firing a supersonic projectile the projectile producing a pressure wave the pressure wave have at least a shock wave and a blast wave and the pressure wave is detected by an acoustic sensor the method comprising setting an initial value for a miss angle determining a value for an intercept angle computing q where q 1 sin computing an initial estimate of the sniper position based on the and the q determining an initial estimate for a minimal distance of the sniper position measured from the acoustic sensor and a maximum distance of the sniper position measured from the acoustic sensor based on the and the q calculating an adjusted miss angle based on coordinates bounded by the minimal distance of the sniper position and the maximum distance of the sniper position and searching an area bounded by the minimal distance of the sniper position and the maximal distance of the sniper position for a global a minimum value of .

According to such a method setting an initial value for miss angle may set for all k may set to 0.01. In addition computing an initial estimate of the sniper position based on the and the q may comprise computing 

Moreover the computing an initial estimate of the sniper position based on the and the q may comprise computing 

These and other aspects of the embodiments herein will be better appreciated and understood when considered in conjunction with the following description and the accompanying drawings. It should be understood however that the following descriptions while indicating preferred embodiments and numerous specific details thereof are given by way of illustration and not of limitation. Many changes and modifications may be made within the scope of the embodiments herein without departing from the spirit thereof and the embodiments herein include all such modifications.

The embodiments herein and the various features and advantageous details thereof are explained more fully with reference to the non limiting embodiments that are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. Descriptions of well known components and processing techniques are omitted so as to not unnecessarily obscure the embodiments herein. The examples used herein are intended merely to facilitate an understanding of ways in which the embodiments herein may be practiced and to further enable those of skill in the art to practice the embodiments herein. Accordingly the examples should not be construed as limiting the scope of the embodiments herein.

The embodiments herein provide a sniper localization system using distributed single microphone sensors or handheld computing devices e.g. a personal digital assistant or PDA using only time differences of arrival TDOA between the shockwave and muzzle blast at each sensor. In addition a sniper localization method using only the TDOA for determination of the sniper location and does not require the time synchronization across multiple sensors is described herein. Referring now to the drawings and more particularly to where similar reference characters denote corresponding features consistently throughout the figures there are shown preferred embodiments.

I O adapter connects non volatile storage devices such as magnetic disk units and solid state storage units to system bus . I O adapter also connects an acoustic sensor to system bus . Acoustic sensor is preferably configured as a single microphone sensor which is capable of recording the acoustic signals due to firing a firearm. In addition acoustic sensor detects acoustic signals and detects in combination with internal clock the time of arrival of muzzle blast and the shockwave and hence the TDOA between the two.

Sniper localization apparatus may further include a communication adapter that optionally connects bus to a wireless communication network . Additionally sniper localization apparatus may also include a user interface and display adapter that connects a touch screen device or other user interface devices to the bus to display output and gather user input.

In the equations that follow Tis the time of arrival of muzzle blast and tis the shockwave where Tand tare described by Equation 1 

As previously mentioned solving Equations 4 and 5 shown above in relation to identifies sniper position shown in and the trajectory of a bullet not shown shot from position . Similarly solving Equations 7 and 8 identifies the sniper position shown in for two velocity models. While in the case of Equations 4 and 5 one would require to know one Mach number for the bullet in the case of Equations 7 and 8 one would require to know two Mach numbers mand m.

In the solution to Equations 4 and 5 discussed below x y z and is a three dimensional vector depicting position . In addition the bullet is traveling along the trajectory that is defined by the unit vector

 sin cos sin sin cos where and represent the elevation and azimuth angles of the trajectory and T denotes the transpose. In addition 1. Equation 8 shown above in relation to requires a similar solution to what is described below for . Therefore Equation 8 will not be discussed further because those skilled in the art would capable of applying the discussion below to the Equation 8 without undue experimentation.

As discussed in further detail below vector Z is describe by using Equation 5 and substituting in the estimated value of Z in Equation 5 to estimate the angles for all k. Squaring both sides of Equation 1 produces Equation 9 

In Equation 10 is position of acoustic sensor and dis the product of propagation velocity and the difference in the time of muzzle blast and shockwave T t at acoustic sensor . Solving the linear equations shown above in Equation 10 requires values of qfor all k. However from Equation 6 above q 1 sin where sin 1 m where the Mach number m is assumed to be known. In general is small when the distance between the sniper location and the sensor is greater than 200 m and the distance between the bullet s path and the sensor is less than 10 m. For example to calculate an initial estimate of the sniper location at position based on the equations above 0.01 is arbitrarily set for all k. In Equation 11 below tilde over Z is the initial estimate of the sniper location at position and tilde over Z can be used in Equation 5 to estimate the approximate values of which is circumflex over and shown as Equation 11 

Ideally if the values of tilde over Z tilde over Z and the values of circumflex over and hacek over calculated using the Equations 11 and 13 respectively are equal resulting in determining the sniper location and the bullet s trajectory.

Step estimates the rough location of the sniper firing point and the approximate trajectory of the projectile using coarse grid search. When determining the coarse location of the sniper firing point the following excerpt of pseudo code may be used as a non limiting example 

In Step the method of finds the final solution that is the sniper firing position and the trajectory. This step is similar to the Step with search space set around the solution obtained in Step . If the solution in Step is denoted by tilde over Z XYZ and set X X 5 X X 5 Y Y 5 Y Y 5 and Z Z 5 Z Z 5 in the pseudo code provided above to estimate the final position of the sniper firing location and the trajectory.

The techniques provided by the embodiments herein may be implemented on an integrated circuit chip not shown . The chip design is created in a graphical computer programming language and stored in a computer storage medium such as a disk tape physical hard drive or virtual hard drive such as in a storage access network . If the designer does not fabricate chips or the photolithographic masks used to fabricate chips the designer transmits the resulting design by physical means e.g. by providing a copy of the storage medium storing the design or electronically e.g. through the Internet to such entities directly or indirectly. The stored design is then converted into the appropriate format e.g. GDSII for the fabrication of photolithographic masks which typically include multiple copies of the chip design in question that are to be formed on a wafer. The photolithographic masks are utilized to define areas of the wafer and or the layers thereon to be etched or otherwise processed.

The resulting integrated circuit chips can be distributed by the fabricator in raw wafer form that is as a single wafer that has multiple unpackaged chips as a bare die or in a packaged form. In the latter case the chip is mounted in a single chip package such as a plastic carrier with leads that are affixed to a motherboard or other higher level carrier or in a multichip package such as a ceramic carrier that has either or both surface interconnections or buried interconnections . In any case the chip is then integrated with other chips discrete circuit elements and or other signal processing devices as part of either a an intermediate product such as a motherboard or b an end product. The end product can be any product that includes integrated circuit chips ranging from toys and other low end applications to advanced computer products having a display a keyboard or other input device and a central processor.

The embodiments herein may comprise hardware and software embodiments. The embodiments that are implemented in software include but are not limited to firmware resident software microcode etc. Furthermore the embodiments herein can take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer usable or computer readable medium providing program code for use by or in connection with a computer or any instruction execution system. For the purposes of this description a computer usable or computer readable medium can be any apparatus that can comprise store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

The medium can be an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system or apparatus or device or a propagation medium. Examples of a computer readable medium include a semiconductor or solid state memory magnetic tape a removable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a rigid magnetic disk and an optical disk. Current examples of optical disks include compact disk read only memory CD ROM compact disk read write CD R W and DVD.

A data processing system suitable for storing and or executing program code will include at least one processor coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a system bus. The memory elements can include local memory employed during actual execution of the program code bulk storage and cache memories which provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution.

Input output I O devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices etc. can be coupled to the system either directly or through intervening I O controllers. Network adapters may also be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems or remote printers or storage devices through intervening private or public networks. Modems cable modem and Ethernet cards are just a few of the currently available types of network adapters.

A more general representation of the hardware environment for practicing the embodiments herein is depicted in . This schematic drawing illustrates hardware configuration of an information handling computer system in accordance with the embodiments herein. Hardware configuration comprises at least one processor or central processing unit CPU . The CPUs are interconnected via system bus to various devices such as a random access memory RAM read only memory ROM and an input output I O adapter . The I O adapter can connect to peripheral devices such as disk units and tape drives or other program storage devices that are readable by the system. The system can read the inventive instructions on the program storage devices and follow these instructions to execute the methodology of the embodiments herein. The system further includes a user interface adapter that connects a keyboard mouse speaker microphone and or other user interface devices such as a touch screen device not shown to the bus to gather user input. Additionally a communication adapter connects the bus to a data processing network and a display adapter connects the bus to a display device which may be embodied as an output device such as a monitor printer or transmitter for example.

The foregoing description of the specific embodiments will so fully reveal the general nature of the embodiments herein that others can by applying current knowledge readily modify and or adapt for various applications such specific embodiments without departing from the generic concept and therefore such adaptations and modifications should and are intended to be comprehended within the meaning and range of equivalents of the disclosed embodiments. It is to be understood that the phraseology or terminology employed herein is for the purpose of description and not of limitation. Therefore while the embodiments herein have been described in terms of preferred embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the embodiments herein can be practiced with modification within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

