---

title: Reduced complexity constellation pattern recognition and classification method
abstract: A simplified, highly accurate, and real-time constellation pattern recognition and classification device for a software-defined communications apparatus is provided. The constellation pattern recognition and classification device includes an r(k) input, a group of test functions, a means for estimating, a means for calculating, a means for selecting the optimal test function, a means for signal processing, and a means for classifying a pattern that substantially decreases the amount of current constellation pattern calculations and intensive computational requirements and provides a real-time rapid response that improves performance of the software-defined communications apparatus. The present invention also includes a simplified, highly accurate, and real-time constellation pattern recognition and classification article of manufacture with a storage medium encoded with machine-readable computer program code for a software-defined communications system and a method for highly accurate and real-time reduced complexity constellation pattern recognition and classification for a software-defined communications system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08369460&OS=08369460&RS=08369460
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08369460
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090518
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured used imported sold and licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America without the payment to me of any royalty thereon.

The invention generally relates to modulation of communications signals. In particular the invention relates to devices and methods for the modulation of communications signals used for blind demodulation of cognitive radios.

Constellation pattern recognition is an important technique that has been used in digital image processing digital signal processing and digital communications. It is a statistical technique for recovering a constellation pattern from noisy data inputs by matching the noisy inputs against known alphabet sets. A two dimensional image or a communication data symbol can be represented by a complex number and a set of those complex numbers can form a two dimensional pattern. These two dimensional patterns include the binary phase shift keying quadrature phase shift keying and 16 ary quadrature amplitude modulation constellation patterns depicted in . The constellation patterns are plotted using an in phase coordinator for real numbers and a quadrature coordinator for imaginary numbers.

Constellation pattern recognition is a statistical method to recover a constellation pattern from noisy data inputs by matching the noisy data inputs to known alphabet sets. Assume that there are L number of constellation pattern candidates and that the i i 1 2 . . . L pattern candidate has Mconstellation alphabets denoted by complex numbers b b . . . b. A number of prior art statistical classification techniques have been developed such as the Average Likelihood Ratio Test Generalized Likelihood Ratio Test Hybrid Likelihood Ratio Test and higher order techniques.

One widely used statistical classifier used in prior art constellation pattern recognition is the Average Likelihood Ratio Test ALRT . The ALRT statistical classifier recognizes the unknown constellation pattern by maximizing the logarithmic probability density functions as follows 

Under the HLRT technique the classification is accomplished by combining ALRT and GLRT together. This method avoids the nested constellation problem in GLRT but it can be complicated due to the multi dimensional maximization required. Higher order cyclic stationary and higher order cumulants were also used for classifying the constellations of the communication signals. However those methods usually require a large amount of data for the statistical analysis and are very computationally expensive.

While the prior art ALRT system has performed many valuable functions it is still beset by a number of difficulties and shortcomings related to its multiple exponential and logarithmic calculations. These ALRT calculations are very computation intensive tedious and extremely time consuming. In fact current ALRT systems are so computation intensive tedious and time consuming that they are not feasible for real time recognition operations in the adaptive demodulation of software radio. Currently the modulation classification is conducted by taking snapshots of the data. Since the content of the data is of interest the classification processing can be performed in between two snapshots which is usually a large time interval. While in the adaptive demodulation case the classification is performed to the signal one block after another. The classification processing of the current block has to be done promptly in a very short time interval before the next block comes. Thus there has been a long felt need for faster modulation classification processing to satisfy the quality of service in real time software radio communication applications that has not been met by prior art constellation pattern recognition systems.

Up until now the long felt needs for simplified and more rapid constellation pattern recognition systems have not been met.

In order to answer the long felt need for a more rapid and simplified constellation pattern recognition device that provides a real time modulation classification this invention provides a simplified highly accurate and real time constellation pattern recognition and classification device that does not suffer from the limitations shortcomings and difficulties of prior art constellation pattern recognition devices.

The reduced complexity constellation pattern recognition and classification device comprises a group of test functions and a means for classifying a pattern that provides a simplified highly accurate and real time constellation pattern recognition and classification device that does not suffer from the limitations shortcomings and difficulties of the ALRT based prior art constellation pattern recognition devices.

It is another object of the present invention to provide a highly accurate and real time reduced complexity constellation pattern recognition and classification system with a group of test functions a means for estimating a means for selecting the optimal test function and a means for classifying a pattern.

It is yet another object of the present invention to provide a method for highly accurate and real time reduced complexity constellation pattern recognition and classification for a software defined communications system with estimating selecting and classifying steps.

It is still a further object of the present invention to provide a simplified highly accurate and real time constellation pattern recognition and classification article of manufacture with a storage medium encoded with machine readable computer program code for a software defined communications system with a means for estimating a means for selecting the optimal test function and a means for classifying a pattern.

These and other objects and advantages can now be attained by this invention s reduced complexity constellation pattern recognition and classification device for software radios comprising an r k input a group of test functions a means for estimating a means for calculating a means for selecting the optimal test function a means for signal processing and a means for classifying a pattern that answers the long felt need for decreasing the numerous constellation pattern calculations and intensive computational requirements and providing a real time rapid response unmet by prior art constellation pattern recognition systems.

Before providing a more detailed description of this invention s reduced complexity constellation pattern recognition and classification system for software defined radios it is necessary to better understand the constellation pattern recognition process and the test function of the ihypothesis. Referring now to which is a processing flow chart depicting the calculation of the test function l H r k of the noisy input data r k by using the ihypothesis H. We assume the number of constellation pattern candidates is L which is represented by Block and the i i 1 2 . . . L pattern candidate has Mconstellation alphabets denoted by complex numbers b b . . . b. For comparison purposes the powers of the alphabets have been normalized to unity that is

In Equation 8 r k k 1 2 . . . K is a block of input data and circumflex over k can be estimated using r k Blocks and . Therefore C is a fixed number for a given block of input data and there is no exponential or logarithmic operation in calculating test function l H r k . Thus computational complexity is largely reduced and the processing is much more rapid than in prior art arrangements which could significantly improve performance of the software defined radio.

It should be noted that computations according to the new devices and methods of this invention are much simpler and faster than the prior art ALRT technique since the variance in the first term of Equation 8 can now be computed either before or after the summation calculation of the second term so that the prior art ALRT sequential processing can now be performed in a parallel manner. Further the function CNis a known value that can be calculated off line.

It is even more remarkable to note that the value of Nis used to prevent the nested hypotheses in the maximum likelihood test. For example referring back to BPSK and QPSK share the same constellation alphabets 0.707 j0.707 and 0.707 j0.707 so that the value of

The invention proposed a simple and fast processing method to classify the constellation patterns. The invention makes the process much simpler since it eliminates all exponential and logarithmic calculations. It also reduces additions and multiplications. Comparing the prior art in Equations 1 and 2 with the new method in Equation 8 the calculation in Equation 2 for calculating the test function of one hypothesis requires approximately 4MK additions subtractions 3M 1 K multiplications divisions and M 1 K exponential logarithmic operations. The calculation in Equation 8 only requires approximately 3M 1 K additions subtractions 2MK multiplications divisions and K minimization operations. The new method operates much faster because it has a simpler structure and is more suitable for parallel processing design.

Referring now to there is depicted the steps of the method for highly accurate and real time reduced complexity constellation pattern recognition and classification for a software defined communications system comprising the steps of providing an r k noisy input having an unknown constellation pattern which is represented by Block estimating a function with a digital signal processor Block the digital signal processor having a stored look up table a means for selecting test functions and a means for classifying a pattern computing a function CNwith a means for calculating using a group of add and multiply components which is represented by Block calculating a function r. circumflex over with the calculating means using a dot product component estimating a function circumflex over with a means for estimating using the lookup table Block and computing a function circumflex over . circumflex over with the calculating means using the dot product component which is represented by Block . This invention s method continues with the steps of comparing the functions with the calculating means and the estimating means which is represented by Block determining a group of parallel likelihood test functions for an ihypothesis Hwith the calculating means Block performing a likelihood function computation with the test function selection means to select an optimal likelihood test function from the group of parallel test functions which is represented by Block rapidly detecting the optimal likelihood test function and the ihypothesis Hwith the pattern classification means to rapidly detect the unknown constellation pattern with a reduced level of computational complexity Block determining a modulation scheme and an optimal constellation pattern to best fit the noisy input Block and providing an enhanced level of performance for the software defined communications system which is represented by Block . Variations applicable to this invention s method include performing a plurality of calculations in parallel instead of sequentially connecting a means for digital signal processing determining a value of Nfor a maximum likelihood test preventing a nested hypothesis in the maximum likelihood test with the value of N implementing the method with a group of software programs and configuring a storage medium encoded with machine readable computer program code.

It is to be further understood that other features and modifications to the foregoing detailed description are within the contemplation of the present invention which is not limited by this detailed description. Those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that any number of configurations of the present invention and numerous modifications and combinations of materials components arrangements and dimensions can achieve the results described herein without departing from the spirit and scope of this invention. Accordingly the present invention should not be limited by the foregoing description but only by the appended claims.

