---

title: 13,13-dimethyl--C,D analogs of 1α,25-dihydroxy-19-nor-vitamin Dcompounds and topical composition dosage forms and methods of treating skin conditions thereof
abstract: 13,13-Dimethyl-des-C,D analogs of 1α,25-dihydroxy-19-nor-vitamin Dcompounds and topical composition dosage forms thereof, and methods of treating skin conditions thereof. Exemplary active pharmaceutical ingredients include (1R,3R)-5-[(E)-(S)-11′-hydroxy-5′,5′,7′,11′-tetramethyl-dodec-2′-enylidene]-2-methylene-cyclohexane-1,3-diol, (1R,3R)-5-[(Z)-(S)-11′-hydroxy-5′,5′,7′,11′-tetramethyl-dodec-2′-enylidene]-2-methylene-cyclohexane-1,3-diol, (1R,3R)-5-[(E)-(R)-11′-hydroxy-5′,5′,7′,11′-tetramethyl-dodec-2′-enylidene]-2-methylene-cyclohexane-1,3-diol, and (1R,3R)-5-[(Z)-(R)-11′-hydroxy-5′,5′,7′,11′-tetramethyl-dodec-2′-enylidene]-2-methylene-cyclohexane-1,3-diol.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08193171&OS=08193171&RS=08193171
owner: Wisconsin Alumni Research Foundation
number: 08193171
owner_city: Madison
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090122
---
This application claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 022 696 filed Jan. 22 2008 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The natural hormone 1 25 dihydroxyvitamin Dand its analog in ergosterol series i.e. 1 25 dihydroxyvitamin D are known to be highly potent regulators of calcium homeostasis in animals and humans. More recently it has been reported that their activity in cellular differentiation has been established. Ostrem et al. 1987 84 2610 . Many structural analogs of these metabolites have been prepared and tested including 1 hydroxyvitamin D 1 hydroxyvitamin D various side chain homologated vitamins and fluorinated analogs. Some of these compounds exhibit an interesting separation of activities in cell differentiation and calcium regulation. Such differences in activity may be useful in the treatment of a variety of diseases such as renal osteodystrophy vitamin D resistant rickets osteoporosis psoriasis and certain malignancies.

In 1990 a new class of vitamin D analogs was discovered. The so called 19 nor vitamin D compounds were reported which have been characterized by the replacement of the ring A exocyclic methylene group carbon 19 typical of the vitamin D system by two hydrogen atoms. Biological testing of such 19 nor analogs e.g. 1 25 dihydroxy 19 nor vitamin D have revealed a selective activity profile having high potency to induce cellular differentiation with very low calcium mobilizing activity.

Thus these 19 nor analog compounds have been potentially useful as therapeutic agents for the treatment of malignancies and or various skin disorders. Two different methods of synthesis of such 19 nor vitamin D analogs have been reported. Perlman et al. 199031 1823 Perlman et al. 199132 7663 and U.S. Pat. No. 5 086 191 to DeLuca et al. . A few years later synthesis of analogs of 1 25 dihydroxy 19 norvitamin Dsubstituted at 2 position with hydroxy or alkoxy groups were reported. U.S. Pat. No. 5 536 713 to DeLuca et al. These 19 nor vitamin D compounds also exhibit interesting and selective activity profiles. Binding sites in vitamin D receptors can accommodate different substituents at C 2 in the synthesized vitamin D analogs.

Recent synthesis and testing of the 19 nor class of pharmacologically important vitamin D compounds has been reported whereby the analogs are characterized by the transposition of the ring A exocyclic methylene group from carbon 10 C 10 to carbon 2 C 2 i.e. 2 methylene 19 nor vitamin D compounds have been recently synthesized and tested . Sicinski et al. 199841 4662 Sicinski et al. 200267 247 and U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 843 928 5 936 133 and 6 392 071 each to DeLuca et al. .

Molecular mechanics studies performed on these analogs showed that a change of A ring conformation can be expected resulting in the flattening of the cyclohexanediol ring. From molecular mechanics calculations and NMR studies their A ring conformational equilibrium was established to be ca. 6 4 in favor of the conformer that has an equatorial 1 OH. Introduction of the 2 methylene group into 19 nor vitamin D carbon skeleton changes the character of its 1 and 3 A ring hydroxyls. They are both now in the allylic positions similar to the 1 hydroxyl group crucial for biological activity in the molecule of the natural hormone 1 25 OH D. It was found that 1 25 dihydroxy 2 methylene 19 norvitamin D analogs are characterized by significant biological potency enhanced dramatically in compounds with unnatural 20S configuration.

An interesting modification of the vitamin D skeleton is removal of its C and D rings. The first compound retiferol lacking the C D substructure was obtained thirteen years ago Kutner et al. 1995 23 22 . Later several des C D vitamin Dderivatives including 19 nor analogs were synthesized. Bauer et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 969 190 and Barbier et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 184 422 and some compounds Ro 65 2299 showed improved biological activities. Hilpert et al. 2001 57 681 .

Recently biological testing and synthesis of des C D analog of 2 methylene 1 25 dihydroxy 19 norvitamin Dhave been reported. DeLuca et al. U.S. Pat. Appl. Publ. No. US 2007 0112077 . The analog retained some VDR binding ability and transcriptional activity albeit significantly decreased in comparison to the analogous vitamins possessing intact C D rings.

In an exemplary embodiment of the active pharmaceutical ingredient R Rand Rare each t butyldimethylsilyl.

In another exemplary embodiment of the active pharmaceutical ingredient the active pharmaceutical ingredient is 1R 3R 5 E S 11 hydroxy 5 5 7 11 tetramethyl dodec 2 enylidene 2 methylene cyclohexane 1 3 diol and or 1R 3R 5 Z S 11 hydroxy 5 5 7 11 tetramethyl dodec 2 enylidene 2 methylene cyclohexane 1 3 diol.

In another exemplary embodiment of the active pharmaceutical ingredient the active pharmaceutical ingredient is 1R 3R 5 E R 11 hydroxy 5 5 7 11 tetramethyl dodec 2 enylidene 2 methylene cyclohexane 1 3 diol and or 1R 3R 5 Z R 11 hydroxy 5 5 7 11 tetramethyl dodec 2 enylidene 2 methylene cyclohexane 1 3 diol.

Another aspect of the invention is a method of making a diastereomeric mixture of a protected active pharmaceutical ingredient comprising the steps or acts of providing a racemic mixture of an aldehyde reactant according to the structure

In an exemplary embodiment of the method of making a diastereomeric mixture of an active pharmaceutical ingredient R Rand Rare each t butyldimethylsilyl.

In another exemplary embodiment of the method of making a diastereomeric mixture of an active pharmaceutical ingredient the method further comprises the steps or acts of separating and deprotecting the protected active pharmaceutical ingredient to yield a deprotected active pharmaceutical ingredient according to the structure

In another exemplary embodiment of the method of making a diastereomeric mixture of an active pharmaceutical ingredient the diastereomeric mixture of the deprotected active pharmaceutical ingredient comprises 1R 3R 5 E S 11 hydroxy 5 5 7 11 tetramethyl dodec 2 enylidene 2 methylene cyclohexane 1 3 diol and 1R 3R 5 Z S 11 hydroxy 5 5 7 11 tetramethyl dodec 2 enylidene 2 methylene cyclohexane 1 3 diol.

In another exemplary embodiment of the method of making a diastereomeric mixture of an active pharmaceutical ingredient the diastereomeric mixture of the deprotected active pharmaceutical ingredient comprises 1R 3R 5 E R 11 hydroxy 5 5 7 11 tetramethyl dodec 2 enylidene 2 methylene cyclohexane 1 3 diol and 1R 3R 5 Z R 11 hydroxy 5 5 7 11 tetramethyl dodec 2 enylidene 2 methylene cyclohexane 1 3 diol.

Another aspect of the invention is a method of making separated diastereomers of an active pharmaceutical ingredient comprising the steps or acts of providing an enantiomer of an aldehyde reactant according to the structure

In an exemplary embodiment of the method of making separated geometric isomers of an active pharmaceutical ingredient R Rand Rare each t butyldimethylsilyl.

In another exemplary embodiment of the method of making separated geometric isomers of an active pharmaceutical ingredient R Rand Rare each hydrogen.

In another exemplary embodiment of the method of making separated geometric isomers of an active pharmaceutical ingredient the separated geometric isomers of the deprotected active pharmaceutical ingredient comprise 1R 3R 5 E S 11 hydroxy 5 5 7 11 tetramethyl dodec 2 enylidene 2 methylene cyclohexane 1 3 diol and 1R 3R 5 Z S 11 hydroxy 5 5 7 11 tetramethyl dodec 2 enylidene 2 methylene cyclohexane 1 3 diol.

In another exemplary embodiment of the method of making separated geometric isomers of an active pharmaceutical ingredient the separated geometric isomers of deprotected active pharmaceutical ingredient comprise 1R 3R 5 E R 11 hydroxy 5 5 7 11 tetramethyl dodec 2 enylidene 2 methylene cyclohexane 1 3 diol and 1R 3R 5 Z R 11 hydroxy 5 5 7 11 tetramethyl dodec 2 enylidene 2 methylene cyclohexane 1 3 diol.

Another aspect of the invention is an active pharmaceutical ingredient made by any one of the above methods.

Another aspect of the invention is a topical dosage form composition comprising a therapeutically effective dose of any one of the above active pharmaceutical ingredients and a pharmaceutically suitable topical carrier system.

In an exemplary embodiment of the topical composition the dose is in the range of 36 mg to 11 ng kg day.

In another exemplary embodiment of the topical composition the topical carrier system comprises in the range of 30 70 ethanol and 30 70 propylene glycol.

In an exemplary embodiment of the topical composition the topical carrier system comprises 70 ethanol and 30 propylene glycol.

Another aspect of the invention is a method of treating acne comprising the steps or acts of topically administering daily or intermittently any one of the above topical compositions to a human.

Another aspect of the invention is a method of reducing comedone area comprising the steps or acts of topically administering daily or intermittently any one of the above topical compositions to a human.

Another aspect of the invention is a method of treating psoriasis comprising the steps or acts of topically administering daily or intermittently any one of the above topical compositions to a human.

Another aspect of the invention is a method of treating ichthyosis comprising the steps or acts of topically administering daily or intermittently any one of the above topical compositions to a human.

Another aspect of the invention is a method of treating photoaging or photodamaged skin comprising the steps or acts of topically administering daily or intermittently any one of the above topical compositions to a human.

Another aspect of the invention is a method of treating skin cancer comprising the steps or acts of topically administering daily or intermittently any one of the above topical compositions of to a human.

Another aspect of the invention is a topical dosage form composition comprising a therapeutically effective dose of an active pharmaceutical ingredient according to the formula

In another exemplary embodiment of the composition the topical carrier system comprises 70 ethanol and 30 propylene glycol.

In another exemplary embodiment of the composition the topical carrier system comprises 70 ethanol and 30 propylene glycol.

Another aspect of the invention is a method of treating acne comprising the acts or steps of topically administering daily or intermittently any one of the above compositions to a human.

Another aspect of the invention is a method of reducing comedone area comprising the acts or steps of topically administering daily or intermittently any one of the above compositions to a human.

Another aspect of the invention is a method of treating psoriasis comprising the acts or steps of topically administering daily or intermittently any one of the above compositions to a human.

Another aspect of the invention is a method of treating ichthyosis comprising the acts or steps of topically administering daily or intermittently any one of the above compositions to a human.

Another aspect of the invention is a method of treating photoaging or photodamaged skin comprising the acts or steps of topically administering daily or intermittently any one of the above compositions to a human.

Another aspect of the invention is a method of treating skin cancer comprising the acts or steps of topically administering daily or intermittently any one of the above compositions to a human.

The invention is directed to 13 13 dimethyl des C D analogs of 1 25 dihydroxy 19 nor vitamin Dcompounds and topical composition dosage forms thereof and methods of treating skin conditions thereof. Exemplary active pharmaceutical ingredients include 1R 3R 5 E S 11 hydroxy 5 5 7 11 tetramethyl dodec 2 enylidene 2 methylene cyclohexane 1 3 diol 1R 3R 5 Z S 11 hydroxy 5 5 7 11 tetramethyl dodec 2 enylidene 2 methylene cyclohexane 1 3 diol 1R 3R 5 E R 11 hydroxy 5 5 7 11 tetramethyl dodec 2 enylidene 2 methylene cyclohexane 1 3 diol and 1R 3R 5 Z R 11 hydroxy 5 5 7 11 tetramethyl dodec 2 enylidene 2 methylene cyclohexane 1 3 diol.

A class of 1 25 dihydroxylated 19 nor vitamin Dcompounds not known heretofore are the 2 methylene compounds lacking the C D rings and having two methyl groups attached to C 13. Thus taking into account a carbon skeleton of these compounds they can be formally considered as derivatives of 8 12 14 17 diseco 9 11 15 16 19 pentanor vitamin D. The preferred vitamin D analog is 13 13 dimethyl 2 methylene 1 25 dihydroxy des C D 19 nor vitamin D.

The invention is also directed to preparation of des C D vitamins substituted with groups such as alkyls having increased hydrophobic interaction with VDR binding. Biologically active 2 methylene 19 norvitamin D compounds and analogs thereof characterized by the absence of the C D rings in lieu of two methyl groups at C 13 have been synthesized and tested.

wherein Yand Y which may be the same or different are each hydrogen or a hydroxy protecting group. Notably as used herein Y R Y R and Y R. An exemplary analog is 13 13 dimethyl 2 methylene 1 25 dihydroxy des C D 19 nor vitamin Dwhich has the following formula Ia 

In the general formula I the chiral carbon 20 may be in either the R or S configuration whereby the wavy line to the carbon 14 steroidal numbering indicates that the double bond between carbons 7 and 8 may be in either the E or Z configuration.

The phrase hydroxy protecting group refers to any suitable group such as tert butyloxy carbonyl t BOC and t butyl dimethyl silyl TBS . Other hydroxy protecting groups are shown in Greene T W et al. 1999 John Wiley Sons Inc. pp. 17 200 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Preparation of the vitamin Danalogs having the structure I is performed using a Wittig Horner coupling of the aldehyde II with the allylic phosphine oxide III to the corresponding 13 13 dimethyl 2 methylene 1 25 dihydroxy des C D 19 nor vitamin Dderivative I followed by deprotection of hydroxyls at C 1 C 3 and C 25 in the latter compound 

In the structures I II and III groups Y Yand Yare hydroxy protecting groups preferably t butyldimethylsilyl. Functionalities that are sensitive or that interfere with the condensation reaction may be suitably protected using methods and materials known in the art. The process shown above represents an application of the convergent synthesis concept which has been applied effectively for the preparation of vitamin D compounds. Lythgoe et al. 1978 590 Lythgoe 1983 9 449 Toh et al. 1983 48 1414 Baggiolini et al. 1986 51 3098 Sardina et al. 1986 51 1264 and 51 1269 1986 DeLuca et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 086 191 and DeLuca et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 536 713 .

Preparation of the required aldehyde of the structure II. A new synthetic route has been developed starting from the known S 7 benzyloxymethoxy 2 6 dimethyl heptan 2 ol DeLuca et al. U.S. Pat. Appl. Publ. No. US 2007 0112077 . A process involving transformation of the starting alcohol 2 prepared in 6 steps from commercially available 1R 3R 4S 5R quinic acid into the aldehyde 14 and its subsequent coupling with the phosphine oxide 15 is summarized by the Scheme I and Scheme II.

Thus the tertiary hydroxy group in 2 was protected as TBS ether and primary hydroxyl was deprotected by hydrogenation of the formed ether 3. Oxidation of the alcohol 4 provided the aldehyde 5 which was subjected to Still Gennari reaction with the phosphono ester 6. The resulted mixture of the isomeric unsaturated esters 7 was hydrogenated to the saturated compounds 8. Alkylation process of the carbanions generated from these esters by LDA resulted in the introduction of a methyl substituent in the position to the carbomethoxy group.

DIBALH reduction of the formed methylated esters 9 provided the alcohols 10 which were converted to imidazole 1 carbothioic acid esters 11. These in turn were subjected to reduction with tributyltin hydride to yield the expected compound 12 possessing gem dimethyl group. Deprotection of primary hydroxy group in 12 gave the alcohol 13 which was oxidized to the aldehyde 14. Wittig Horner coupling of this compound with lithium phosphinoxy carbanion generated from the phosphine oxide 15 and phenyllithium yielded the expected mixture of protected vitamin D analogs. After deprotection with hydrogen fluoride 13 13 dimethyl des C D analogs of 20S 2 methylene 1 25 dihydroxy 19 nor vitamin D 16 and 17 were produced.

For the preparation of the required phosphine oxides of general structure III a synthetic route has been developed starting from a methyl quinicate derivative which is easily obtained from commercial 1R 3R 4S 5R quinic acid as described in Sicinski et al. 1998 41 4662 and U.S. Pat. No. 5 843 928 to DeLuca et al.

SCHEMES I and II set forth herein below in the examples show a detailed illustration of the preparation of compounds of formula Ia and specifically 13 13 dimethyl des C D analogs of 20S 2 methylene 1 25 dihydroxy 19 nor vitamin D.

As used herein therapeutically effective dose and administering to a human a therapeutically effective dose refers to an amount of one or more APIs sufficient to treat e.g. prophylactic treating the active condition or curing one or more of acne vulgaris psoriasis ichthyosis photoaging photodamaged skin and or skin cancer.

Treatment regimens may also include numerous dosing regimens. For a human various therapeutically effective doses and dosing regimens thereof may be determined from the animal data set forth herein using known Allometric Scaling AS factors. For example for a mouse having a body weight of 0.03 kg the AS factor is around 7 assuming a human body weight of 70 kg.

The predictive dosing range set forth in Table 2 was calculated assuming that the dose given to the Rhino mouse has been corrected for the expected lesser sensitivity of the human and further increased by 0.5 log dose. For the high end of the topical dose the value was further multiplied by a factor of 20 as humans absorb only about 5 of the dose compared to 100 by the mouse. The low dose is 1 10lower than the high dose. Differences in the animal species sensitivity to various vitamin D analogs as well as differences in relative absorption of various vitamin D analogs by the skin may also significantly affect the human efficacious dose compared to that used in the animal studies detailed herein.

The pharmaceutically suitable topical carrier system also referred to as drug delivery systems which are modern technology distributed with or as a part of a drug product that allows for the uniform release or targeting of drugs to the body preferably include FDA approved and or USP approved inactive ingredients. Under 21 CFR 210.3 b 8 an inactive ingredient is any component of a drug product other than the active ingredient. According to 21 CFR 210.3 b 7 an active ingredient is any component of a drug product intended to furnish pharmacological activity or other direct effect in the diagnosis cure mitigation treatment or prevention of disease or to affect the structure or any function of the body of humans or other animals. Active ingredients include those components of the product that may undergo chemical change during the manufacture of the drug product and be present in the drug product in a modified form intended to furnish the specified activity or effect.

As used herein the topical dosage form includes various dosage forms known in the art such as lotions an emulsion liquid dosage form whereby this dosage form is generally for external application to the skin lotion augmented a lotion dosage form that enhances drug delivery whereby augmentation does not refer to the strength of the drug in the dosage form gels a semisolid dosage form that contains a gelling agent to provide stiffness to a solution or a colloidal dispersion whereby the gel may contain suspended particles ointments a semisolid dosage form usually containing 50 hydrocarbons waxes or polyols as the vehicle whereby this dosage form is generally for external application to the skin or mucous membranes ointment augmented an ointment dosage form that enhances drug delivery whereby augmentation does not refer to the strength of the drug in the dosage form creams an emulsion semisolid dosage form usually containing 20 water and volatiles 5 and or 

The topical dosage form composition contains an active pharmaceutical ingredient and one or more inactive pharmaceutical ingredients such as excipients colorants pigments additives fillers emollients surfactants e.g. anionic cationic amphoteric and nonionic penetration enhancers e.g. alcohols fatty alcohols fatty acids fatty acid esters and polyols and the like. Various FDA approved topical inactive ingredients are found at the FDA s The Inactive Ingredients Database that contains inactive ingredients specifically intended as such by the manufacturer whereby inactive ingredients can also be considered active ingredients under certain circumstances according to the definition of an active ingredient given in 21 CFR 210.3 b 7 . Alcohol is a good example of an ingredient that may be considered either active or inactive depending on the product formulation.

Various FDA approved topical inactive ingredients are found at the FDA s The Inactive Ingredients Database that contains inactive ingredients specifically intended as such by the manufacturer whereby inactive ingredients can also be considered active ingredients under certain circumstances according to the definition of an active ingredient given in 21 CFR 210.3 b 7 . Alcohol is a good example of an ingredient that may be considered either active or inactive depending on the product formulation.

As used herein prodrugs are compounds that are pharmacologically inert but are converted by enzyme or chemical action to an active form of the drug i.e. an active pharmaceutical ingredient at or near the predetermined target site. In other words prodrugs are inactive compounds that yield an active compound upon metabolism in the body which may or may not be enzyme controlled. Prodrugs may also be broadly classified into two groups bioprecursor and carrier prodrugs. Prodrugs may also be subclassified according to the nature of their action. Bioprecursor prodrugs are compounds that already contain the embryo of the active species within their structure whereby the active species are produced upon metabolism. For example the first prodrug antibacterial prontosil is metabolized in vivo to its active metabolite sulphanilamide. Carrier prodrugs are formed by combining the active drug with a carrier species forming a compound having desirable chemical and biological characteristics whereby the link is an ester or amide so that the carrier prodrug is easily metabolized upon absorption or delivery to the target site. For example lipophilic moieties may be incorporated to improve transport through membranes. Carrier prodrugs linked by a functional group to carrier are referred to as a bipartate prodrug. Prodrugs where the carrier is linked to the drug by a separate structure are referred to as tripartate prodrugs whereby the carrier is removed by an enzyme controlled metabolic process and whereby the linking structure is removed by an enzyme system or by a chemical reaction. Thomas G 2000 John Wiley Sons Ltd. pp. 12 17 243 and 364 372 See also Wermuth C G 2003 2. Academic Press 33 561 582 .

Chemistry. Melting points uncorrected were determined on a Thomas Hoover capillary melting point apparatus. Ultraviolet UV absorption spectra were recorded with a Perkin Elmer Lambda 3B UV VIS spectrophotometer in ethanol. H nuclear magnetic resonance NMR spectra were recorded in deuteriochloroform at 200 400 and 500 MHz with a Varian Unity Bruker DMX 400 and Bruker DMX 500 spectrometers respectively. C nuclear magnetic resonance NMR spectra were recorded at 50 100 and 125 MHz with the same spectrometers in deuteriochloroform. Chemical shifts were reported downfield from internal MeSi 0.00 . Electron impact EI mass spectra were obtained with a Micromass AutoSpec Beverly Mass. instrument. High performance liquid chromatography HPLC was performed on a Waters Associates liquid chromatograph equipped with a Model 6000A solvent delivery system a Model U6K Universal injector and a Model 486 tunable absorbance detector. THF was freshly distilled before use from sodium benzophenone ketyl under argon.

The starting S 7 benzyloxymethoxy 2 6 dimethyl heptan 2 ol 2 was obtained from commercial R methyl 3 hydroxy 2 methylpropionate as described previously DeLuca et al. U.S. Pat. Appl. Publ. No. US 2007 0112077 .

 a Protection of hydroxy group in the hydroxy ether 2 SCHEME I . S 6 Benzyloxymetoxy 1 1 5 trimetyl hexyloxy tert butyldimethylsilane 3 . To a solution of alcohol 2 1.08 g 3.9 mmol and 2 6 lutidine 0.9 mL 7.7 mmol in anhydrous CHCl 21 mL at 0 C. was dropwise added tert butyldimethylsil triflate 1.46 mL 6.1 mmol . The solution was stirred at 0 C. for 1.5 h and poured into water. The organic layer was separated and the water phase was extracted with CHCl. The combined extracts were washed with diluted HCl dried MgSO and evaporated. The oily residue was chromatographed on silica gel using hexane AcOEt 9 1 as an eluent to provide the oily product 3 1.4 g 100 .

3 4 c 0.19 CHCl H NMR 200 MHz CDCl 0.06 6H s Si CH 0.85 9H s Si t Bu 0.94 3H d J 6.6 Hz CH CH 1.17 6H s C CH 1.74 1H m CH CH 3.36 1H dd J 9.3 6.6 Hz one of OCH CH 3.46 1H dd J 9.3 6.1 Hz one of OCHCH 4.60 2H s O CH O 4.76 2H s CH Ph 7.30 5H m Ar H C NMR 50 MHz 1.84 Si CH 17.31 CH CH 18.31 SiC CH 21.80 CHCHCH 26.05 SiC CH 29.96 and 30.09 C CH 33.69 CH CH 34.36 CHCHCH 45.49 CHCHCH 69.43 CH Ph 73.66 C CH 73.84 OCHCH 94.98 OCHO 127.86 128.11 and 128.62 Ar 138.21 Ar HRMS ESI exact mass calcd for CHOSiNa M Na 417.2801 measured 417.2805.

 b Removal of BOM protecting group in compound 3. s 6 tert Butyldimethylsilyloxy 2 6 dimethyl heptan 1 ol 4 . 1procedure. To a solution of compound 3 1.5 g 3.8 mmol in ethyl acetate 10 mL was added Pd C 10 100 mg at room temperature. The reaction mixture was stirred for 6 days under a continuous stream of hydrogen from balloon and Pd C 100 mg in portions was added 3 times per day. Then the mixture was filtered and the solvent was evaporated under reduced pressure. The oily residue was chromatographed on silica gel using hexane AcOEt 9 1 as an eluent yielding an oily alcohol 4 0.80 g 77 .

2procedure. To a solution of compound 3 0.5 g 1.27 mmol in ethyl acetate 25 mL was added Pd C 10 380 mg at room temperature. The reaction mixture was hydrogenated for 3 h under the hydrogen pressure of 10 Pa. Then the mixture was filtered and the solvent was evaporated under reduced pressure. The oily residue was applied on a silica Sep Pak cartridge 5 g and washed with hexane AcOEt 9 1 producing an oily alcohol 4 272 mg 78 .

4 5.3 c 0.93 CHCl H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 0.06 6H s Si CH 0.85 9H s Si t Bu 1.09 3H d J 7.1 Hz CH CH 1.17 6H s C CH 1.63 1H m CHCH 3.42 1H dd J 6.6 10.5 Hz one of CHOH 3.51 1H dd J 5.8 10.5 Hz one of CHOH C NMR 100 MHz 2.07 Si CH 16.54 CH CH 18.09 SiC CH 21.56 CH CH CH 25.82 SiC CH 29.76 and 29.87 2 C CH 33.69 CHCHCH 35.78 CH CH 45.28 CHCHCH 68.78 CHOH 73.45 C CH HRMS ESI exact mass calcd for CHOSiNa M Na 297.2226 measured 297.2191.

 c Oxidation of the hydroxy compound 4. S 6 tert Butyldimethylsilyloxy 2 6 dimethyl heptanal 5 . To a solution of NMO 0.3 g 2.6 mmol in CHCl 11 mL were added 4 molecular sieves 1.65 g and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 15 min. Then was added TPAP 30 mg 0.08 mmol and a solution of the alcohol 4 0.3 g 1.09 mmol in CHCl 1.2 mL . The resultant dark mixture was stirred for 30 min filtered through a silica Sep Pak 5 g and evaporated. The oily residue was dissolved in hexane applied on a silica Sep Pak cartridge 5 g and washed with hexane AcOEt 98 2 to yield an oily aldehyde 5 253 mg 85 .

5 14.6 c 0.88 CHCl H NMR 200 Hz CDCl 0.06 6H s Si CH 0.85 9H s Si t Bu 0.92 3H d J 6.8 Hz CH CH 1.17 6H s C CH 2.35 1H m CHCH 9.62 1H d J 1.9 Hz CHO C NMR 50 MHz 2.08 Si CH 13.25 CH CH 18.07 SiC CH 21.58 CH CH CH 25.80 SiC CH 29.76 and 29.80 2 C CH 31.02 CHCHCH 44.96 CHCHCH 46.34 CH CH 73.24 C CH 205.31 CHO HRMS ESI exact mass calcd for CHONa M Na 295.2069 measured 295.2090.

 d Preparation of the phosphono ester 6. 2 P P Bis 2 2 2 trifluoroethyl phosphono 4 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy butyric acid methyl ester 6 . To a suspension of NaH 60 730 mg washed with hexane in anhydrous DMF 6.6 mL at 0 C. was slowly added a solution of FCCHO POCHCOOCH 5 g 15.7 mmol in anhydrous DMF 6.6 mL . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1.5 h and a solution of Br CH OTBS 8.4 mL 9.3 g 39.2 mmol was added in a freshly distilled HMPA 6.8 mL 39.2 mmol . After stirring at room temperature for 48 h the reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate and poured into water. The organic phase was separated and the water layer was extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic extracts were washed with water dried MgSO and evaporated. The oily residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel using hexane AcOEt 98.5 1.5 as an eluent to yield a crystalline product 6 2.3 g 30 .

6 H NMR 200 MHz CDCl 0.03 6H s Si CH 0.87 9H s Si t Bu 0.92 3H d J 6.8 Hz CH CH 2.08 1H m one of CHCHCH 2.21 1H m one of CHCHCH 3.39 and 3.44 1H and 1H each dd J 10.5 3.5 Hz PCHC O 3.60 and 3.72 1H and 1H each m CHOTBS 3.77 3H COOCH 4.42 4H m 2 CHOP HRMS ESI exact mass calcd for CHFOSiP M H 477.1314 measured 477.1297.

 e Still Gennari reaction of the aldehyde 5 with the phosphono ester 6. S 8 tert Butyldimethylsilyloxy 2 2 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy etyl 4 8 dimethyl non 2 enoic acid methyl ester 7 . To a solution of phosphono ester 6 1 g 2.12 mmol and 18 crown 6 2.5 g 92.5 mmol in anhydrous THF 50 mL at 30 C. was dropwise added KHMDS 0.5 M in toluene 4.25 mL 2.12 mmol . After stirring for 15 min. the mixture was cooled to 40 C. and a solution of the aldehyde 5 288 mg 1.06 mmol in anhydrous THF 6.3 mL was added. The mixture was stirred for 2 h at 40 C. 1 h at 30 C. 1 h at 20 C. 1 h at 0 C. and finally for 18 h at room temperature. Saturated NHCl was added and the mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic phase was dried MgSO and evaporated. The oily residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel using hexane AcOEt 95 5 as an eluent providing an isomeric mixture 7 512 mg 100 .

7 H NMR 200 Hz CDCl 0.04 and 0.06 6H and 6H each s 2 Si CH 0.83 and 0.89 9H and 9H each s 2 Si t Bu 1.00 3H d J 6.6 Hz CH CH 1.16 6H s C CH 2.56 2H t J 7.2 Hz CHC C 3.62 2H t J 7.2 Hz CHOTBS 3.72 3H s COOCH 6.62 1H d J 10.2 Hz C CH HRMS ESI exact mass calcd for CHOSiNa M Na 509.3438 measured 509.3458.

 f Double bond hydrogenation in compound 7 SCHEME II . S 8 tert Butyldimethylsilyloxy 2 2 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy etyl 4 8 dimethyl nonanoic acid methyl ester 8 . To a solution of the ester 7 158 mg 0.32 mmol in anhydrous methanol 8 mL was added PtO 50 mg 0.22 mmol at room temperature. The mixture was stirred for 5 days in hydrogen atmosphere and each day 3 portions of PtO 30 mg were added. The mixture was filtered the solvent evaporated and the oily residue was purified on silica Sep Pak 2 g . Elution with hexane AcOEt 9 1 yielded an oily mixture of products which were separated by HPLC 9.4 mm 25 cm Zorbax Sil column 4 mL min using a hexane ethyl acetate 99.65 0.35 solvent system. The isomeric esters 8 45 mg 28 33 based on recovered substrate were collected at R104 mL and the unreacted olefinic compound E isomer 23 mg was collected at R124 mL.

8 H NMR 400 Hz CDCl 0.03 and 0.05 6H and 6H each s 2 Si CH 0.85 and 0.89 9H and 9H each s 2 Si t Bu 1.00 3H d J 6.6 Hz CH CH 1.17 6H s C CH 2.64 1H m CHCOOCH 3.59 2H m CHOTBS 3.66 3H s COOCH HRMS ES exact mass calcd for CHONaSi M Na 511.3615 measured 511.3600.

 g Methylation of the ester 8. S 8 tert Butyldimethylsilyloxy 2 2 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy etyl 2 4 8 trimethyl nonanoic acid methyl ester 8 . To a solution of diisopropyloamine 85 L 0.56 mmol in anhydrous THF 0.5 mL was added n BuLi 1.6 M in cyclohexane 350 L 0.56 mmol under argon at 20 C. The mixture was stirred for 20 min at 20 C. cooled to 78 C. and a solution of MeI 54 L 0.84 mmol in freshly distilled HMPA 195 L was then added. Stirring was continued at 78 C. for 3 h then the mixture was allowed to warm up to the room temperature and the stirring was continued for 17 h. The mixture was poured into water and extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic layers were washed with water dried MgSO and evaporated. The oily residue was purified on silica Sep Pak 2 g . Elution with hexane AcOEt 9 1 gave an oily product 9 62 mg 86 .

9 H NMR 500 Hz CDCl 0.03 and 0.05 6H and 6H each s 2 Si CH 0.77 3H d J 6.0 Hz CHCH 0.85 and 0.88 9H and 9H each s 2 Si t Bu 1.16 3H s 2 CH 1.17 6H s C CH 3.58 2H m CHOTBS 3.64 3H s COOCH HRMS ESI exact mass calcd for CHOSi M H 503.3952 measured 503.3958.

 h Reduction of the ester 9. S 8 tert Butyldimethylsilyloxy 2 2 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy etyl 2 4 8 trimethyl nonan 1 ol 10 . To a stirred solution of the ester 9 32 mg 0.06 mmol in toluene CHCl 2 1 1 mL was added at 78 C. diisobutylaluminium hydride 1.5 M in toluene 0.27 mL 0.39 mmol . Stirring was continued at 78 C. for 3 h and the mixture was quenched by adding 2 M potassium sodium tartrate and diluted HCl. The mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate the organic extracts were washed with water dried MgSO and evaporated. The oily residue was purified on silica Sep Pak 2 g . Elution with hexane AcOEt 95 5 gave an oily alcohol 10 31 mg 100 .

10 H NMR 500 Hz CDCl 0.06 and 0.09 6H and 6H each s 2 Si CH 0.93 3H d J 6.8 Hz CHCH 0.88 3H s CCH 0.85 and 0.90 9H and 9H each s 2 Si t Bu 1.17 6H s C CH 3.30 and 3.62 1H and 1H each m CHOH 3.58 2H m CHOTBS HRMS ESI exact mass calcd for CHONaSi M Na 497.3822 measured 497.3829.

 i Reaction of the alcohol 10 with TDCI. Imidazole 1 carbothioic acid O S 8 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy 2 2 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy etyl 2 4 8 trimethyl nonyl ester 11 . To a solution of the alcohol 10 60 mg 0.13 mmol in anhydrous THF 5 mL was added 1 1 thiocarbonyl di imidazole 150 mg 0.84 mmol . The mixture was stirred at 75 C. for 6 h and at room temperature for 16 h. Solvent was evaporated and the oily residue was purified on silica Sep Pak 2 g . Elution with hexane AcOEt 95 5 yielded an oily thioester 11 70 mg 94 .

11 H NMR 500 Hz CDCl 0.05 and 0.06 6H and 6H each s 2 Si CH 0.93 3H d J 6.6 Hz CHCH 0.84 and 0.87 9H and 9H each s 2 Si t Bu 1.07 3H s CCH 1.16 6H s C CH OSi 1.28 2H t J 7.2 Hz 3.72 2H t J 6.6 Hz CHOTBS 4.44 2H m CHOCS 7.05 7.63 and 8.35 each 1H each s Ar H C NMR 125 MHz 5.41 and 2.09 Si CH 18.21 SiC CH 21.67 CH CH CH 22.43 CH CH 22.79 C CH 25.81 and 25.90 2 SiC CH 28.29 CH CH 29.73 i 29.79 2 C CH 36.97 C CH CHO 40.07 CH 40.32 CH 45.17 CH 45.29 CH 59.29 CHOTBS 73.37 OC CH 117.63 130.76 and 184.08 Ar HRMS ESI exact mass calcd for CHONSNaSi M Na 607.3761 measured 607.3761.

 j Reduction of compound 11. S 1 9 Bis tert butyldimethylsilyloxy 3 3 5 9 tetramethyl decane 12 . To a refluxing solution of compound 11 60 mg 0.1 mmol and AIBN 2.5 mg 0.015 mmol in anhydrous toluene 3 mL was dropwise added BuSnH 54 L 0.2 mmol during 1 h. The mixture was stirred at 120 C. for 2 h and for 17 h at room temperature. Solvents were evaporated and the oily residue was applied on a silica Sep Pak 2 g . Elution with hexane AcOEt 99.8 0.2 yielded an oily diether 12 22.7 mg 48 .

12 0.8 c 1.1 CHCl H NMR 400 Hz CDCl 0.05 and 0.06 6H and 6H each s 2 Si CH 0.85 and 0.89 9H and 9H each s 2 Si t Bu 0.88 and 0.90 3H and 3H each s C CH 0.91 3H d J 6.6 Hz CHCH 1.17 6H s C CH OSi 1.48 2H t J 7.7 Hz 3.66 2H t J 7.7 Hz CHOTBS C NMR 100 MHz 5.21 and 2.06 Si CH 18.08 and 18.32 SiC CH 21.82 CH CH CH 22.65 CH CH 25.84 and 25.99 2 SiC CH 27.73 and 27.77 2 C CH 28.75 CH CH 29.82 and 29.85 2 OC CH 32.92 C CH 40.26 CH 45.18 CH 45.30 CH 50.05 CH 60.20 CHOTBS 73.61 OC CH HRMS ESI exact mass calcd for CHONaSi M Na 481.3873 measured 481.3856.

 k Deprotection of a primary hydroxyl in compound 12. S 9 tert Butyldimethylsilyloxy 3 3 5 9 tetramethyl decan 1 ol 13 . To a solution of diether 12 30 mg 65 mol in anhydrous THF 10 mL was added tetrabutylammonium fluoride 1.0 M in THF 130 L 130 mol . The mixture was stirred under argon at room temperature for 18 h poured into brine and extracted with ethyl acetate. Organic extracts were washed with brine dried MgSO and evaporated. The oily residue was purified on a silica Sep Pak 2 g . Elution with hexane AcOEt 9 1 gave an oily alcohol 13 23 mg 100 .

13 0.6 c 1.15 CHCl H NMR 400 Hz CDCl 0.05 6H s Si CH 0.85 9H s Si t Bu 0.90 6H s 2 CH 0.91 3H d J 6.6 Hz CHCH 1.17 6H s C CH OSi 3.70 2H t J 7.7 Hz CHOH C NMR 100 MHz 2.08 Si CH 18.09 SiC CH 21.04 CH CH 21.80 CH CH CH 25.83 SiC CH 27.73 and 27.77 2 C CH 28.77 CH CH 29.84 OC CH 32.98 C CH 40.22 CH 45.28 CH 45.33 CH 49.98 CH 59.92 CHOH 73.48 OC CH HRMS ES exact mass calcd for CHONaSi M Na 367.3008 measured 367.3000.

 l Oxidation of the alcohol 13. S 9 tert Butyldimethylsilyloxy 3 3 5 9 tetramethyl decanal 14 . To a solution of NMO 19 mg 0.16 mmol in CHCl 0.7 mL were added 4 molecular sieves 100 mg and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 15 min. Then was added TPAP 1.4 mg 3.72 mol and a solution of the alcohol 14 23 mg 67 mol in CHCl 200 L . The resultant dark mixture was stirred for 2 h filtered through a silica Sep Pak 2 g and evaporated. The oily residue was dissolved in hexane applied on a silica Sep Pak cartridge 2 g and washed with hexane AcOEt 99 1 yielding an oily aldehyde 15 16 mg 70 .

15 0.6 c 0.80 CHCl H NMR 400 Hz CDCl 0.05 6H s Si CH 0.85 9H s Si t Bu 0.93 3H d J 6.6 Hz CHCH 1.06 6H s 2 CH 1.17 6H s C CH 2.26 2H m CHCHO 9.85 1H t J 3.14 Hz 13C NMR 100 MHz 2.08 Si CH 18.10 SiC CH 21.74 CH CH 22.52 CH CH CH 25.83 SiC CH 27.64 and 29.84 C CH 28.86 CH CH 34.20 C CH 40.02 CH 45.22 CH 45.22 CH 50.15 CH 55.56 CHOH 73.44 C CH 203.91 CHO HRMS ES exact mass calcd for CHONaSi M Na 365.2852 measured 365.2840.

 m Wittig Horner reaction of aldehyde 14 with phosphine oxide 15 and deprotection of hydroxy groups. 1R 3R 5 E S 11 hydroxy 5 5 7 11 tetramethyl dodec 2 enylidene 2 methylene cyclohexane 1 3 diol 16 13Me and 1R 3R 5 Z S 11 hydroxy 5 5 7 11 tetramethyl dodec 2 enylidene 2 methylene cyclohexane 1 3 diol 17 13 Me C . To a solution of phosphine oxide 15 83 mg 141 mol in anhydrous THF 0.8 mL at 78 C. was slowly added phenyllithium 1.8 M in cyclohexane 75 L 141 mol under argon with stirring. The solution turned deep orange. The mixture was stirred at 78 C. for 20 min. and a precooled 78 C. solution of the aldehyde 14 16 mg 47 mol in anhydrous THF 300 L was slowly added. The mixture was stirred at 78 C. under argon for 3 h and at 6 C. for 16 h. Ethyl acetate and water were added and the organic phase was separated washed with brine dried MgSO and evaporated. The oily residue was purified on a silica Sep Pak cartridge 2 g . Elution with hexane AcOEt 99.8 0.2 yielded a mixture of isomeric protected vitamin D analogs 17 mg 52 . The major product was identified as 1R 3R 1 3 bis tert butyldimethylsilyloxy 5 E S 11 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy 5 5 7 11 tetramethyl dodec 2 enylidene 2 methylene cyclohexane 16 .

 16 UV hexane 237.0 244.0 276.5 nm H NMR 400 Hz CDCl vitamin D numbering 0.027 and 0.037 3H and 3H each s 2 Si CH 0.058 and 0.064 6H and 6H each s 2 SiCH 0.85 0.87 and 0.89 3 9H each s 3 Si t Bu 0.85 0.91 9H overlapped with Si t Bu 21 and 13 Me 1.17 6H s 26 and 27 H 1.96 1H m 20 H 2.15 1H dd J 12.5 8.0 Hz 4 H 2.40 3H m 4 10 and 10 H 4.42 2H m 1 and 3 H 4.93 and 4.96 1H and 1H each s C CH 5.64 1H dt J 14.7 7.6 Hz 8 H 5.92 1H d J 10.8 Hz 6 H 6.21 1H dd J 14.7 10.8 Hz 7 H C NMR 100 MHz 4.98 4.87 and 2.06 3 Si CH 18.11 18.14 and 18.23 3 SiC CH 21.88 C 20 22.78 C 23 25.74 25.80 and 25.86 3 SiC CH 27.36 and 27.40 13 Me 28.91 C 13 29.94 C 26 and C 27 34.03 C 21 38.96 C 22 40.34 and 45.40 C 4 and C 10 46.69 C 24 47.23 C 14 49.64 C 17 71.82 and 72.34 C 1 and C 3 73.52 C 25 106.31 C CH 127.24 C 6 128.16 C 7 130.22 C 8 132.9 C 5 152.84 C 2 HRMS ES exact mass calcd for CHOSiNa M Na 729.5470 measured 729.5437. This compound was contaminated with a small quantity of its 7Z isomer vitamin D numbering .

To a solution of protected vitamins 17 mg 24 mol in THF 3 mL and acetonitrile 1 mL was added MeCN 46 HF 9 1 4 mL at room temperature. After stirring for 4 h a saturated NaHCOwas added. The racemic mixture was extracted with CHCl organic extracts were washed with brine dried MgSO and evaporated. The residue was first purified on a silica Sep Pak 0.5 g . Elution with hexane ethyl acetate 1 1 yielded a mixture of deprotected vitamins 16 and 17 5.2 mg 63 . Separation of both isomers was achieved by reversed phase HPLC 9.4 mm 25 cm Eclipse XDB C18 column 3 mL min using a methanol water 85 15 solvent system. Vitamin D analog 16 4.9 mg was collected at R30.8 mL and the 7Z isomer 17 280 g at R32.0 mL.

16 UV EtOH 236.5 243.0 275.5 nm H NMR 400 Hz CDCl vitamin D numbering 0.87 6H s 13 Me 0.91 3H d J 6.6 Hz 21 H 1.21 6H s 26 and 27 H 2.26 1H dd J 13.2 6.9 Hz 4 H 2.38 1H dd J 13.3 7.4 Hz 10 H 2.56 1H dd J 13.2 4.3 Hz 4 H 2.71 1H dd J 13.3 4.2 Hz 10 H 4.48 2H m 1 and 3 H 5.09 2H s C CH 5.71 1H dt J 14.7 7.6 Hz 8 H 6.05 1H d J 10.8 Hz 6 H 6.27 1H dd J 14.7 10.8 Hz 7 H C NMR 100 MHz 21.85 C 23 22.49 C 21 27.49 and 27.65 13 Me 28.70 C 13 29.26 C 26 and C 27 34.54 C 20 38.12 C 22 40.08 and 45.53 C 4 and C 10 44.15 C 24 46.31 C 14 49.38 C 17 70.98 C 25 71.13 and 71.43 C 1 and C 3 107.89 C CH 127.41 C 6 128.80 C 7 131.06 C 8 132.14 C 5 151.82 C 2 HRMS ESI exact mass calcd for CHONa M Na 387.2875 measured 387.2859.

17 UV EtOH 238.5 244.0 nm H NMR 500 Hz CDCl vitamin D numbering 0.89 and 0.90 3H and 3H each s 13 Me 0.91 3H d J 6.6 Hz 21 H 1.21 6H s 26 and 27 H 2.08 and 2.12 1H and 1H each dd J 13.2 7.5 Hz 14 H 2.32 1H dd J 13.1 6.7 Hz 4 H 2.39 1H dd J 13.2 7.6 Hz 10 H 2.60 1H dd J 13.1 4.2 Hz 4 H 2.74 1H dd J 13.2 4.2 Hz 10 H 4.49 2H m 1 and 3 H 5.11 2H s C CH 5.56 1H dt J 9.6 7.5 Hz 8 H 6.33 2H m 6 and 7 H HRMS ESI exact mass calcd for CHONa M Na 387.2875 measured 387.2876.

13Mebinds the VDR with one log less affinity compared to the native hormone. Consistent with the lower binding activity the differentiation and transcription activities are also lower than 1.25 OH Dby approximately one log. Although 13Meis less potent in vitro than 1.25 OH D it exhibits insignificant activity on intestinal calcium transport and or bone calcium mobilization.

Experimental Methods. Vitamin D Receptor Binding. Test Material Protein Source. Full length recombinant rat receptor was expressed in BL21 DE3 Codon Plus RIL cells and purified to homogeneity using two different column chromatography systems. The first system was a nickel affinity resin that utilizes the C terminal histidine tag on this protein. The protein that was eluted from this resin was further purified using ion exchange chromatography S Sepharose Fast Flow . Aliquots of the purified protein were quick frozen in liquid nitrogen and stored at 80 C. until use. For use in binding assays the protein was diluted in TEDK50 50 mM Tris 1.5 mM EDTA pH 7.4 5 mM DTT 150 mM KCl with 0.1 Chaps detergent. The receptor protein and ligand concentration was optimized such that no more than 20 of the added radiolabeled ligand was bound to the receptor.

Study Drugs. Unlabeled ligands were dissolved in ethanol and the concentrations determined using UV spectrophotometry 1.25 OH D molar extinction coefficient 18 200 and 265 nm Analog molar extinction coefficient 30 200 and 243 nm . Radiolabeled ligand H 1.25 OH D 159 Ci mmole was added in ethanol at a final concentration of 1 nM.

Assay Conditions. Radiolabeled and unlabeled ligands were added to 100 l of the diluted protein at a final ethanol concentration of 

HL 60 Differentiation. Test Material. Study Drugs. The study drugs were dissolved in ethanol and the concentrations determined using UV spectrophotometry. Serial dilutions were prepared so that a range of drug concentrations could be tested without changing the final concentration of ethanol 

Cells. Human promyelocytic leukemia HL 60 cells were grown in RPMI 1640 medium containing 10 fetal bovine serum. The cells were incubated at 37 C. in the presence of 5 CO.

Assay Conditions. HL 60 cells were plated at 1.2 105 cells ml. Eighteen hours after plating cells in duplicate were treated with drug. Four days later the cells were harvested and a nitro blue tetrazolium reduction assay was performed. Collins et al. 1979 149 969 974 . The percentage of differentiated cells was determined by counting a total of 200 cells and recording the number that contained intracellular black blue formazan deposits. Verification of differentiation to monocytic cells was determined by measuring phagocytic activity data not shown .

In vitro Transcription Assay. Transcription activity was measured in ROS 17 2.8 bone cells that were stably transfected with a 24 hydroxylase 24OHase gene promoter upstream of a luciferase reporter gene. Arbour et al. 1998 . Cells were given a range of doses. Sixteen hours after dosing the cells were harvested and luciferase activities were measured using a luminometer. RLU relative luciferase units.

Intestinal Calcium Transport and Bone Calcium Mobilization Activity. Male weanling Sprague Dawley rats were placed on Diet 11 0.47 Ca diet AEK oil for one week followed by Diet 11 0.02 Ca AEK oil for 3 weeks. The rats were then switched to a diet containing 0.47 Ca for one week followed by two weeks on a diet containing 0.02 Ca. Dose administration began during the last week on 0.02 calcium diet. Four consecutive intraperitoneal doses were given approximately 24 hours apart. Twenty four hours after the last dose blood was collected from the severed neck and the concentration of serum calcium determined as a measure of bone calcium mobilization. The first 10 cm of the intestine was also collected for intestinal calcium transport analysis using the everted gut sac method.

Rhino mice were used to topically test the compounds and compositions of the invention. The Rhino mouse is a well established animal model used to study the comedolytic effects of anti acne agents including retinoids. See Boulcier M et al. 1990 Experimental Models in Skin Pharmacology 42 127 154 . The Rhino mouse model was used to study the therapeutic potential of 13Me.

Animals and dose administration. Rhino mice were enrolled in the study at 6 8 weeks of age and were dosed daily via the topical route. The mice were weighed three times per week and doses were adjusted weekly based on body weight. The topical formulations were applied to the back of the animal in a maximum volume of 100 L. The topical formulations were made by mixing the 13Mewith a topical carrier comprising 70 vol ethanol and 30 vol propylene glycol as indicated. The topical vehicle control was the vehicle carrier solution matched to the formulation containing API and vehicle carrier. Mice were sacrificed 72 hours after the final topical dose. At sacrifice the dorsal skin was collected for histology studies.

Comedolytic effect. The extent of the comedolytic effect i.e. efficacy was assessed by measuring the average area of the comedones whereby the smaller the area the larger the effect. The comedone area was determined by histological analysis of tissue sections based upon lab methods. Skin was fixed overnight in 4 paraformaldehyde at 4 C. with gentle agitation and dehydrated the next day into 100 methanol.

Samples were embedded in paraffin and a total of nine 10 sections 150 apart were prepared from each Rhino mouse. Five of the nine sections were digitally imaged 6 magnification for comedone analysis using Metamorph Imaging Software trace function . The perimeter of each comedone on the images taken from the 5 sections was then traced using a Wacom Intuos 3 Graphics Tablet interfaced with the software.

The number of pixels comprising the area of each individual comedone was obtained and the mean number of pixels per comedone was obtained for each Rhino mouse. For comedones that were completely healed area 0 a pixel value approaching 0 

Preparation of topical formulations containing 13Me. A concentrated ethanolic stock of 13Mewas diluted to a final concentration containing 30 vol propylene glycol and 70 vol ethanol as the excipient carrier system. The mixture was thoroughly mixed. The topical dosing formulation delivered a predetermined dosing amount of drug on a per kilogram body weight basis. A 100 L dose was administered to the back of the mouse. An average weight of 24 30 g mouse was assumed in dose volume calculations. Dosing volumes were adjusted weekly to deliver the desired predetermined dosing amount of API based on the body weight of each individual animal.

