---

title: Microcavity and microchannel plasma device arrays in a single, unitary sheet
abstract: An array of microcavity plasma devices is formed in a unitary sheet of oxide with embedded microcavities or microchannels and encapsulated metal driving electrodes isolated by oxide from the microcavities or microchannels and arranged so as to generate sustain a plasma in the embedded microcavities or microchannels upon application of time-varying voltage when a plasma medium is contained in the microcavities or microchannels.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08890409&OS=08890409&RS=08890409
owner: The Board of Trustees of the University of Illnois
number: 08890409
owner_city: Urbana
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090514
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 and all other applicable statutes and treaties from prior U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 127 559 filed May 14 2008.

This invention was made with government support under contract no. FA9550 07 1 003 awarded by Air Force Office of Scientific Research. The government has certain rights in the invention.

A field of the invention is microcavity plasma devices. Another field of the invention is microchannel plasma devices.

Microcavity plasma devices produce a nonequilibrium low temperature plasma within and essentially confined to a cavity having a characteristic dimension d below approximately 500 m and preferably substantially smaller down to about 10 m at present . Such microplasma devices provide properties that differ substantially from those of conventional macroscopic plasma sources. Because of their small physical dimensions microplasmas normally operate at gas or vapor pressures considerably higher than those accessible to macroscopic devices. For example microplasma devices with a cylindrical microcavity having a diameter of 200 300 m or less are capable of operation at rare gas as well as Nand other gases tested to date pressures up to and beyond one atmosphere.

Such high pressure operation is advantageous. An example advantage is that at these higher pressures plasma chemistry favors the formation of several families of electronically excited molecules including the rare gas dimers Xe Kr Ar . . . and the rare gas halides such as XeCl ArF and KrF that are known to be efficient emitters of ultraviolet UV vacuum ultraviolet VUV and visible radiation. This characteristic in combination with the ability of microplasma devices to operate in a wide range of gases or vapors and combinations thereof offers emission wavelengths extending over a broad spectral range. Furthermore operation of the plasma in the vicinity of atmospheric pressure minimizes the pressure differential across the packaging material when a microplasma device or array is sealed. Operation at atmospheric pressure also allows for arrays of microplasmas to serve as microchemical reactors not requiring the use of vacuum pumps or associated hardware.

Research by the present inventors and colleagues at the University of Illinois has resulted in new microcavity and microchannel plasma device structures as well as applications. Recent work has resulted in microcavity and microchannel plasma devices that are easily and inexpensively formed in metal metal oxide e.g. Al AlO structures by simple anodization processes. Large scale manufacturing of microplasma device arrays benefits from structures and fabrication methods that reduce cost and increase reliability. Of particular interest in this regard are the electrical interconnections between devices in a large array as well as the reproducible formation of electrodes having a precisely controlled geometry.

The metal metal oxide microplasma device arrays developed prior to the present invention have been formed by joining at least two sheets. Each separate sheet e.g. a foil or screen contains one of the two required driving electrodes for generating plasmas. These prior arrays work very well but having two sheets typically requires alignment and bonding of the two pieces and especially so if addressable arrays are to be formed. Precision alignment becomes challenging and potentially costly when the alignment error must be a small fraction of the microcavity cross sectional dimension typically 10 200 m . Also the bonding of separate electrode sheets can reduce the array lifetime because bonding increases the probability for electrical breakdown along the surface of one of the electrode.

An embodiment of the invention is an array of microcavity plasma devices formed in a unitary sheet of oxide with embedded microcavities or microchannels and encapsulated metal driving electrodes isolated by oxide from the microcavities or microchannels and arranged so as to generate and sustain a plasma in the embedded microcavities or microchannels upon application of time varying voltage when a plasma medium is contained in the microcavities or microchannels.

Embodiments of the invention provide arrays of metal metal oxide microplasma devices including both microcavity and microchannel devices that integrate complete driving sustain electrodes electrical connections and microcavities and or microchannels in a single unitary sheet. Arrays of the invention can be fabricated by a simple and inexpensive wet chemical process. With complete microcavities microchannels driving electrodes and interconnects in a unitary sheet the difficulty of precisely aligning two separate sheets is eliminated thereby simplifying the fabrication process. Large arrays of microplasma devices of the invention can be formed and are suitable for many applications such as lighting displays photomedicine sterilization and UV curing.

An embodiment of the invention is an array of microcavity plasma devices formed in a unitary sheet of oxide with embedded microcavities or microchannels and encapsulated metal driving electrodes isolated by oxide from the microcavities or microchannels and arranged so as to generate sustain a plasma in the embedded microcavities or microchannels upon application of time varying voltage when a plasma medium gase es or vapor s is contained in the microcavities or microchannels.

Embodiments of the invention provide monolithic sheets including arrays of micoplasma devices in which the electric field lines do not pass through a sheet sheet interface to the second electrode. Arrays of the invention exhibit enhanced reliability and lifetime.

Preferred embodiments of the invention will now be discussed with respect to the drawings. The drawings include schematic representations which will be understood by artisans in view of the general knowledge in the art and the description that follows. Features may be exaggerated in the drawings for emphasis and features may not be to scale. Similar features in different figures are identified by common reference numbers.

Laboratory prototypes having microchannel widths as small as 30 40 m have also been demonstrated successfully and commercial fabrication techniques and lithograph are capable fo producing even smaller widths e.g. 10 m. As noted above the electrodes appear in as a thin crescent moon shaped region lying below each barrier rib between the microchannels. These thin electrodes are able to drive microplasmas in the microchannels. In preferred methods of fabrication the electrodes automatically form with a taper at the edges. This taper advantageously minimizes edge effects thereby lowering the possibility for electrical breakdown of the dielectric and damaging of the arrays.

The array can be addressed by driving pairs of electrodes separately. This has been demonstrated in prototype microchannel devices. A voltage V is applied across the electrodes associated with lying adjacent to a given microchannel to excite a plasma in that microchannel. In the experimental microchannel arrays electrodes of extend out are run out to the opposite sides of the array to facilitate electrical connection. The applied voltage V is time varying and can be for example sinusoidal triangular or pulsed unipolar or bipolar . Example prototype addressable arrays of microchannel plasma devices have been operated in several hundred Torr of Ne as well as other rare gases. Addressability of these arrays has also been demonstrated if the two electrodes associated with a particular channel are not energized no plasma is formed with that channel.

Data were taken with an experimental microchannel prototype according to and show that the spatial uniformity of the emission is excellent. presents voltage current V I measurements and presents luminance data for the prototype microchannel array of operated at pressures between 300 and 700 Ton with a 20 kHz sinusoidal driving voltage.

The experimental array was formed with an Al metal electrode encapsulated in AlO. Since most of the original Al foil has been converted into nanoporous AlO the capacitance and displacement current are both exceptionally low. Producing a plurality of electrodes as shown in and to G reduces the capacitance further. Low capacitance and displacement current are important for driving arrays of large area. The luminance of peaks at 300 cd m which is a good value for Ne known to be an inefficient emitter .

Another preferred embodiment addressable array based upon the unitary electrode and oxide sheet structure is illustrated in . The complete set of driving sustain electrodes is embedded in the single unitary sheet of oxide . A set of addressing electrodes is formed external to the sheet on a separate sheet or substrate such as a transparent window. The addressing electrodes are spaced at a small distance from the microcavities or alternatively can be mounted directly onto oxide sheet . Electrodes turn plasma on and off individual microcavities in cooperation with the sustain electrodes . The voltage applied across adjacent electrodes in is not shown.

While specific embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described it should be understood that other modifications substitutions and alternatives are apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art. Such modifications substitutions and alternatives can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention which should be determined from the appended claims.

