---

title: Biaryl carboxamides
abstract: 

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08367679&OS=08367679&RS=08367679
owner: Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp.
number: 08367679
owner_city: Rahway
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20091208
---
This invention relates to amide substituted benzimidazole and aza benzimidazole compounds which have platelet activating factor PAF receptor antagonist activity pharmaceutical compositions containing these compounds and methods of treating PAF mediated disorders including inflammatory cardiovascular and immune disorders.

Platelet activating factor PAF 1 0 alkyl 2 acetyl sn glycerol 3 phosphorylcholine is a potent inflammatory phospholipid mediator that binds to and activates platelet activating factor receptor PAFR . PAF is produced and released by monocytes macrophages polymorphonuclear leukocytes PMNs eosinophils neutrophils natural killer lymphocytes platelets and endothelial cells as well as by renal and cardiac tissues under appropriate immunological and non immunological stimulation. PAF is similar to other lipid mediators such as thromboxane A prostaglandins and leukotrienes with respect to the level of potency active at 10to 10M tissue amount picomoles and short plasma half life 2 4 minutes . PAF is physiologically active and causes contraction of the airway smooth muscle increased vascular permeability platelet aggregation and hypotension. Reviewed in Prescott S. M. et al. 2000 69 419 445 Honda et al. 2002 131 773 779 Stafforini et al. 2003 40 643 672.

PAF has been reported to participate in several aspects of the inflammatory response associated with the pathogenesis of atheroscloerosis however the precise role of PAF PAFR has not been defined. PAF activates the adhesive interaction of leukocytes with the vascular endothelium and the transmigration of leukocytes promotes the release of reactive oxygen species and tissue damaging enzymes from leukocytes and endothelial cells induces the synthesis of inflammatory cytokines from monocytes and causes the aggregation and degranulation of platelets. In addition PAF receptor has been shown to recognize both PAF and PAF like oxidized phospholipids on LDL and may promote an inflammatory response to them Frostegard J. et al. 1997 17 963 968 Leitinger N. 2003 14 421 430 . A PAFR antagonist was reported to reduce atherosclerotic lesion area by 62 in Ldlr mice fed an atherogenic diet Subbanagounder G. et al. 1999 85 311 318 . PAF may also promote smooth muscle cell proliferation angiogenesis and elastase release. These activities have the potential to contribute to lesion formation or to the generation of occlusive thrombi at the site of plaque rupture Reviewed in Demopoulos C. A. et al. 2003 105 705 716 Zimmerman G. A. et al. 2002 30 S294 S301 .

PAF has also been implicated in both peripheral and neuropathic pain responses. PAF can induce hyperalgesia when injected subcutaneously into a rat paw Bonnet J. et al. 1981 100 111 Vargaftig B. B. Ferreira S. H. 1981 14 187 and PAFR antagonists were reported to decrease the inflammatory nociceptive response in rats Mather L. A. 2002 163 430 433 . PAF may also mediate neuropathic pain responses. Intrathecal administration of PAF in mice caused the development of tactile allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia Morita K. et al. 2004 111 351 359 . PAF is expressed in the spinal cord and DRG neurons. A PAFR agonist evoked an intracellular Ca flux in capsaicin sensitive DRG but not in Pafr mice and it has been proposed that PAF may function in both persistent pain and the sensitization of primary sensory neurons after tissue injury Tsuda M. et al. 2007 102 1658 1668 .

PAF also appears to play a role in pathological allergic hypersecretory and additional inflammatory responses. Many published studies suggest the involvement of PAF in autoimmune and inflammatory human diseases including anaphylaxis rheumatoid arthritis acute inflammation asthma endotoxic shock ischemia gastrointestinal ulceration transplanted organ rejection reperfusion injury inflammatory bowel diseases edema rhinitis thrombosis bronchitis urticaria psoriasis retinal and corneal diseases chemically induced liver cirrhosis and ovimplantation in pregnancy and acute respiratory distress syndrome. References include Piper P. J. et al. 1991 629 112 119 Holtzman M. J. 1991 143 188 203 Snyder F. 1990 259 C697 C708 Prescott S. M. et al. 1990 265 17381 17384 cardiac diseases Feuerstein G. et al. 1997 15 255 284 liver injury Karidis N. P. et al. 2006 12 3695 3706 pancreatitis Liu L. R. Xia S. H. 2006 12 539 545 lung Uhlig S. et al. 2005 57 206 221 thrombosis Prescott S. M. et al. 2002 22 727 733 Ishii S. Shimizu T. 2000 39 41 82. Compounds and or pharmaceutical compositions which act as PAF receptor antagonists should be of value in the treatment of any of the above conditions.

Despite significant therapeutic advances in the treatment and prevention of atherosclerosis and ensuing atherosclerotic disease events such as the improvements that have been achieved with HMG CoA reductase inhibitors further treatment options are clearly needed. Moreover there is a need for additional treatment options in addition to the therapeutics that exist for the treatment of both inflammatory and neuropathic pain. The instant invention addresses those needs by providing compounds compositions and methods for the treatment or prevention of atherosclerosis and pain as well as related and other immune conditions.

The instant invention relates to compounds of Formula I which are PAFR antagonists methods of their preparation and methods and pharmaceutical formulations for using these compounds in mammals especially humans. This invention provides compounds of structural Formula I 

The compounds of Formula I are also useful as to treat or ameliorate inflammatory pain and nociceptive pain. They are also useful to treat or ameliorate autoimmune and inflammatory human diseases including anaphylaxis rheumatoid arthritis acute inflammation asthma endotoxic shock ischemia gastrointestinal ulceration transplanted organ rejection reperfusion injury inflammatory bowel diseases edema rhinitis thrombosis bronchitis urticaria psoriasis retinal and corneal diseases chemically induced liver cirrhosis and ovimplantation in pregnancy and acute respiratory distress syndrome. The instant invention provides methods of treatment comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I to a patient in need of the above described treatments.

A further object is to provide the use of PAFR inhibitors of Formula I in combination with other therapeutically effective agents including other drugs useful for the treatment of atherosclerosis and pain. These and other objects will be evident from the description contained herein.

In an embodiment of this invention referred to herein as Formula II are compounds of Formula I wherein Ris selected from the group consisting of 

In a class of this embodiment referred to herein as Formula IIa are compounds of Formula II wherein Ris selected from the group consisting of 

In another class of this embodiment referred to herein as Formula IIb are compounds of Formula II wherein Ris selected from the group consisting of cyano COR OR CO NRR NRR NHC O R NHSOR NHC O ORand NHC O NRR.

In another embodiment of this invention referred to herein as Formula III are compounds of Formula I wherein Ris selected from the group consisting of 

In another embodiment of this invention referred to herein as Embodiment A are compounds of Formula I II IIa IIb or III wherein Ris phenyl ring B substituted with one to three of R and more particularly wherein Ris phenyl substituted with one to three of Rand is attached to ring A at the 4 position i.e. 

In another embodiment of this invention referred to herein as Embodiment B are compounds of Formula I II IIa IIb III Embodiment A wherein the Rand Rsubstituents are positioned as shown below 

In a further embodiment referred to herein as Embodiment C are compounds of Formula I II IIa IIb III or Embodiment A or B wherein m is one and y is a bond.

In another embodiment of this invention referred to herein as Embodiment D are compounds of Formula I II IIa IIb III or Embodiment A B or C wherein Ris pyridyl optionally substituted with R.

In another embodiment of this invention are compounds of Formula I II IIa IIb III or Embodiment A B C or D having structural Formula IV 

In another aspect of this invention are compounds of Formula I II IIa IIb III or Embodiment A B or D wherein m is 1.

In another aspect of the present invention are compounds of Formula I II IIa IIb III or Embodiment A B or D wherein y is CH or a bond. Preferably y is a bond. More preferably m is 1 and y is a bond.

In another aspect of this invention are compounds of Formula I II IIa IIb III or Embodiment C or D wherein Ris selected from the group consisting of phenyl pyridinyl pyridazinyl pyrimidinyl pyrazinyl pyrazolyl imidazolyl quinolinyl isoquinolinyl indolyl benzofuranyl and benzodioxolyl each of which is optionally substituted with one to three of R. Preferably Ris phenyl substituted with one to three of R.

In yet another aspect of this invention are compounds of Formula I II IIa IIb III IV or Embodiment A B C or D wherein Ris independently selected at each occurrence from the group consisting of fluoro chloro methyl optionally substituted with fluoro including for example CF and methoxy optionally substituted with fluoro including for example OCF . In another aspect of this invention are compounds wherein Ris di substituted with R. Preferably both Rsubstituents are identical and are selected from fluoro chloro methyl optionally substituted with fluoro including for example CF and methoxy optionally substituted with fluoro including for example OCF . More preferably both Rsubstituents are CF.

In another aspect of this invention are compounds of Formula I II IIa IIb III or Embodiment A B or C wherein Ris selected from the group consisting of pyridyl pyrimidinyl oxadiazolyl tetrazolyl triazolyl pyrazolyl thiazolyl and isoxazolyl each of which is optionally substituted with R. Examples of suitable Rgroups include but are not limited to 

When present Ris preferably selected from the group consisting of fluoro chloro methyl methoxy ethoxy cyano CF hydroxy and oxo. More preferably Ris fluoro methyl methoxy ethoxy hydroxy oxo or absent. Most preferably Ris absent.

In another aspect of this invention are compounds of Formula I II IIa IIb III or Embodiment A B or C wherein Ris selected from the group consisting of pyridyl optionally mono substituted with Rand oxadiazolyl optionally mono substituted with R. When present on the pyridyl ring Ris preferably selected from fluoro methyl methoxy and ethoxy. When present on the oxadiazolyl ring Ris preferably selected from methyl ethoxy and ethoxy. Preferably Ris unsubstituted pyridyl oxadiazolyl mono substituted with methyl or pyridyl mono substituted with methyl methoxy ethoxy or fluoro. Most preferably Ris unsubstituted pyridyl.

In another aspect of this invention are compounds of Formulas Formula I or IV or Embodiment A B C or D wherein Ris selected from H fluoro chloro phenyl Calkyl optionally substituted with fluoro or hydroxy OCalkyl optionally substituted with fluoro or hydroxy Ccycloalkyl optionally substituted with fluoro a 5 or 6 membered heterocyclic ring optionally substituted with R COR OR and CONRR. Examples of suitable 5 and 6 membered monocyclic heterocyclic rings include but are not limited to pyrazol 3 yl pyrazol 4 yl pyrimidin 2 yl pyrimidin 5 yl pyrid 2 yl pyrid 3 yl pyrid 4 yl pyrazinyl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 3 yl oxazol 2 yl and isoxazol 3 yl each of which may be optionally substituted with R. Preferably Ris H Cl F methyl CF OCF or Ccycloalkyl or Ris pyridyl pyrimidinyl pyrazinyl or pyrazolyl wherein each heterocyclic ring is optionally substituted with R.

In another aspect of this invention are compounds of Formula I II IIa IIb III IV or Embodiment A B C or D wherein R when present is selected from the group consisting of amino methoxy hydroxy fluoro and cyano.

In another aspect of this invention are compounds of Formula I II IIa IIb III IV or Embodiment A B C or D wherein R when present is selected from the group consisting of amino methoxy hydroxy ethoxy methyl chloro fluoro and cyano.

In another aspect of this invention are compounds of Formula I II IIa IIb III IV or Embodiment A B C or D wherein R when present is selected from H Calkyl optionally substituted with phenyl and Ccycloalkyl optionally substituted with methyl.

In another aspect of this invention are compounds of Formula I II IIa IIb III IV or Embodiment A B C or D wherein R when present is selected from benzyl and Calkyl optionally substituted with one to three of F.

In another aspect of this invention are compounds of Formula I II IIa IIb III IV or Embodiment A B C or D wherein R when present is selected from the group consisting of H Ccycloalkyl and Calkyl optionally substituted with hydroxy or fluoro.

In another aspect of this invention are compounds of Formula I II IIa IIb III IV or Embodiment A B C or D wherein R when present is selected from the group consisting of H Ccycloalkyl and Calkyl optionally substituted with hydroxy or fluoro. Preferably Rand Rare not both H and are not both Ccycloalkyl.

In another embodiment aspect of this invention are compounds of Formula I II IIa IIb III IV or Embodiment A B C or D wherein Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are both attached represent a ring selected from the group consisting of pyrrolidinyl piperidinyl and morpholinyl each of which is optionally substituted with a substituent selected from the group consisting of CH CF F and OH.

In another aspect of this invention are compounds of Formulas Formula I II IIa IIb III IV or Embodiment A B C or D wherein z is H F or hydroxy. Preferably z is H.

In an alternative embodiment of this invention are compounds of Formula I wherein m is one and y is a bond having structural Formula V 

In particular are compounds of Formula V wherein Ris selected from H F CH CF OCF and phenyl optionally substituted with R and

In an embodiment of Formula V referred to herein as Formula Va are compounds wherein Ris H. In another embodiment referred to as Formula Vb are compounds wherein Ris present at the 4 position of ring A and Ris present at the 6 position of ring A and is not H. In another embodiment referred to as Formula Vc are compounds wherein Ris present at the 4 position of ring A and Ris present at the 5 position of ring A and is not H. In yet another embodiment referred to as Formula Vd are compounds wherein Ris present at the 3 position of ring A and Ris present at the 5 position of ring A and is not H.

Unless specified otherwise the point of attachment of the Rand Rgroups is via any available carbon in phenyl ring A. 

As used herein the term alkyl means carbon chains which may be linear or branched or combinations thereof containing the indicated number of carbon atoms. Examples of alkyl groups include methyl Me ethyl Et propyl iso propyl i propyl Pr butyl sec and text butyl s butyl t butyl sBu tBu pentyl hexyl and the like. Cycloalkyl is intended to be a cyclized alkyl ring having the indicated number of carbon atoms. Examples of cycloalkyl include cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl and cyclohexyl. The cycloalkyl ring may be substituted on any available carbon which results in the creation of a stable structure including the ring carbon which serves as the point of attachment to the rest of the molecule. Preferably cycloalkyl is cyclopropyl or cyclobutyl and more particularly when it is substituted with CHor CF the substituent is on the ring carbon which serves as the point of attachment to the rest of the molecule.

 Halogen Halo includes fluoro chloro bromo and iodo. Preferred halogens are F and Cl more preferably F.

As used herein heterocyclic ring and heterocycle mean an aromatic or partially unsaturated heterocyclic ring containing one or more carbon atoms and one or more heteroatoms selected from nitrogen N oxygen O and sulfur S in total containing 5 to 6 atoms in the ring. A bicyclic heterocyclic ring system similarly means an aromatic or partially unsaturated bicyclic ring system containing one or more carbon atoms and one or more heteroatoms selected from nitrogen N oxygen O and sulfur S in total containing 9 to 10 atoms in the ring. For mono and bicyclic heterocyclic rings containing one or more of N it is understood that the nitrogen may be present in the ring as N or NH in accordance with the degree of unsaturation in the ring. A heterocyclic ring or bicyclic ring system may be more specifically defined where appropriate in the specification for example with respect to the number of members i.e. atoms in the ring and or the type and quantity of heteroatoms in the ring or the point of attachment between two rings in a bicyclic ring system. Examples of aromatic or partially unsaturated heterocyclic rings include but are not limited to pyridyl pyrimidyl imidazolyl tetrazolyl triazolyl pyrazolyl thiazolyl isoxazolyl and the like. For 5 membered aromatic or partially unsaturated heterocyclic rings the point of attachment in a compound structure may be via any available carbon or nitrogen in the ring which results in the creation of a stable structure unless specified otherwise. For 6 membered aromatic or partially unsaturated heterocyclic rings the point of attachment in a compound structure may be via any available carbon in the ring which results in the creation of a stable structure unless specified otherwise. The heterocyclic ring or ring system may be substituted on any available carbon or nitrogen in the ring which results in the creation of a stable structure.

The phrase 9 membered ortho fused bicyclic heterocyclic ring system as used herein means a 6 membered ring and a 5 membered ring wherein the rings have two and only two adjacent atoms in common i.e. they are ortho fused. The phrase 10 membered ortho fused bicyclic heterocyclic ring system as used herein means two 6 membered rings ortho fused together. Said bicyclic ring systems are comprised of carbon atoms and the indicated number and kind of heterotaoms and may be substituted as defined herein. Examples of suitable ortho fused bicyclic heteroaryls include benzothiophene quinoline isoquinoline benzofuran and the like. Additional examples of bicyclic heterocyclic ring systems are shown in the Examples and Tables herein.

The phrases optionally substituted and optionally substituted with one or more substituents are both intended to mean that the total number of substituents on the optionally substituted moiety overall may be zero one or more than one and that each carbon and heteroatom when present available for substitution in the given moiety may independently be unsubstituted or mono or poly substituted with one or more substituents that are the same or different at each occurrence and which result in the creation of a stable structure as is understood to be reasonable by one skilled in the art. In some instances the number of substituents which may optionally be present on a moiety is specified for example but not limited to 1 to 3 of fluoro and mono or di substituted with R. For example Calkyl optionally substituted with fluoro includes but is not limited to CH CHF CHF CF CHCH CH CHF CHF CHF CF CF CH CF CH CF CF CF and the like methyl optionally substituted with 1 to 3 of fluoro includes CH CHF CHFand CF and phenyl optionally mono or di substituted with Rincludes

Some of the compounds encompassed herein may exist as tautomers e.g. ketoenol tautomers. For the purpose of illustration when Ris a 5 membered heterocyclic ring and Ris oxo or OH the resulting compound may be capable of tautomerism as exemplified below 

Reference to the compounds of this invention as those of a specific formula or embodiment e.g. Formula I Formula II Embodiment A etc. or any other generic structural formula or specific compounds described or claimed herein is intended to encompass the specific compound or compounds falling within the scope of the generic structural formula or embodiments including salts thereof particularly pharmaceutically acceptable salts as well as the esters and or solvates of such compounds and salts thereof where such forms are possible unless specified otherwise. The term pharmaceutically acceptable salts refers to salts prepared from pharmaceutically acceptable non toxic bases or acids including inorganic or organic bases and inorganic or organic acids. Salts derived from inorganic bases include aluminum ammonium calcium copper ferric ferrous lithium magnesium manganic salts manganous potassium sodium zinc and the like. Salts derived from pharmaceutically acceptable organic non toxic bases include salts of primary secondary and tertiary amines substituted amines including naturally occurring substituted amines cyclic amines and basic ion exchange resins such as arginine betaine caffeine choline N N dibenzylethylenediamine diethylamine 2 diethylaminoethanol 2 dimethylaminoethanol ethanolamine ethylenediamine N ethyl morpholine N ethylpiperidine glucamine glucosamine histidine hydrabamine isopropylamine lysine methylglucamine morpholine piperazine piperidine polyamine resins procaine purines theobromine triethylamine trimethylamine tripropylamine tromethamine and the like. When the compound of the present invention is basic salts may be prepared from pharmaceutically acceptable non toxic acids including inorganic and organic acids. Such acids include acetic benzenesulfonic benzoic camphorsulfonic citric ethanesulfonic formic fumaric gluconic glutamic hydrobromic hydrochloric isethionic lactic maleic malic mandelic methanesulfonic malonic mucic nitric pamoic pantothenic phosphoric propionic succinic sulfuric tartaric p toluenesulfonic acid trifluoroacetic acid and the like and particularly citric fumaric hydrobromic hydrochloric trifluoroacetic maleic phosphoric sulfuric and tartaric acids.

Any pharmaceutically acceptable pro drug modification which results in conversion in vivo to an active form of a compound within the scope of this invention is also within the scope of this invention. For example esters can optionally be made by esterification of an available carboxylic acid group or by formation of an ester on an available hydroxy group in a compound. Pharmaceutically acceptable esters of the compounds of this invention may serve as pro drugs which can be hydrolyzed back to their acid or hydroxy form particularly in vivo and as such are encompassed within the scope of this invention. Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable esters include but are not limited to Calkyl esters and Calkyl substituted with phenyl esters.

The compounds of Formula I may contain one or more asymmetric centers and can thus occur as racemates racemic mixtures single enantiomers diastereoisomeric mixtures and individual diastereoisomers. The present invention includes all such isomers as well as salts esters and or solvates of such racemates mixtures enantiomers and diastereoisomers. Compounds of structural Formula I may be separated into their individual diastereoisomers by e.g. fractional crystallization from suitable solvents e.g. DCM hexanes or EtOAc hexanes or via chiral chromatography using an optically active stationary phase. Absolute stereochemistry may be determined by X ray crystallography of crystalline products or crystalline intermediates which are derivatized if necessary with a reagent containing a stereogenic center of known configuration. Alternatively synthesis can be performed using one or more chiral intermediates which results in a chiral final product.

Furthermore compounds of the present invention may exist in amorphous or crystalline physical forms and a single compound may exist in more than one polymorphic crystalline form. All such physical forms are intended to be included in the scope of the present invention. In addition some of the compounds of the instant invention may form solvates with water hydrates or with common organic solvents. Such solvates and hydrates are likewise encompassed within the scope of this invention.

Accordingly the compounds within the generic structural formulas and specific compounds described and claimed herein encompass salts thereof esters thereof and salts of esters thereof where such forms are possible unless specified otherwise. The instant invention further encompasses all possible stereoisomers physical forms e.g. amorphous and crystalline forms solvate forms tautomers and combinations of these forms of the compounds falling within the generic structural formulas as well as the specific compounds described and claimed herein the salts thereof esters thereof and salts of esters thereof where such forms are possible unless specified otherwise.

This invention involves the use of the PAF receptor antagonist compounds described herein to slow or halt atherogenesis. Therefore one object of the instant invention is to provide a method for treating atherosclerosis which includes halting or slowing the progression of atherosclerotic disease once it has become clinically evident comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula Ito a patient in need of such treatment. Another object is to provide methods for preventing or reducing the risk of developing atherosclerosis and atherosclerotic disease events comprising administering a prophylactically effective amount of a compound of Formula Ito a patient who is at risk of developing atherosclerosis or having an atherosclerotic disease event.

Atherosclerosis is characterized by the deposition of atheromatous plaques containing cholesterol and lipids on the innermost layer of the walls of large and medium sized arteries. Atherosclerosis encompasses vascular diseases and conditions that are recognized and understood by physicians practicing in the relevant fields of medicine. Atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease including restenosis following revascularization procedures coronary heart disease also known as coronary artery disease or ischemic heart disease cerebrovascular disease including multi infarct dementia and peripheral vessel disease including erectile dysfunction are all clinical manifestations of atherosclerosis and are therefore encompassed by the terms atherosclerosis and atherosclerotic disease. 

A compound of Formula I of the instant invention may be administered to prevent or reduce the risk of occurrence or recurrence where the potential exists of a coronary heart disease CHD event a cerebrovascular event and or intermittent claudication. Coronary heart disease events are intended to include CHD death myocardial infarction i.e. a heart attack and coronary revascularization procedures. Cerebrovascular events are intended to include ischemic or hemorrhagic stroke also known as cerebrovascular accidents and transient ischemic attacks. Intermittent claudication is a clinical manifestation of peripheral vessel disease. The term atherosclerotic disease event as used herein is intended to encompass coronary heart disease events cerebrovascular events and intermittent claudication. It is intended that persons who have previously experienced one or more non fatal atherosclerotic disease events are those for whom the potential for recurrence of such an event exists. Accordingly the instant invention also provides a method for preventing or reducing the risk of a first or subsequent occurrence of an atherosclerotic disease event comprising the administration of a prophylactically effective amount of a compound of Formula I to a patient at risk for such an event. The patient may already have atherosclerotic disease at the time of administration or may be at risk for developing it.

This invention also involves the use of compounds of Formula I described herein to treat or ameliorate inflammatory pain and nociceptive pain in mammals and especially in humans. Therefore one object of the instant invention is to provide a method for treating pain comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I to a patient in need of such treatment. Another object is to provide methods for preventing or reducing the risk of developing inflammatory and nociceptive pain comprising administering a prophylactically effective amount of a compound of Formula I to a patient who is at risk of developing inflammatory or nociceptive pain.

Compounds and or pharmaceutical compositions which act as PAF receptor antagonists appear to play a role in pathological allergic hypersecretory and inflammatory responses. Many published studies suggest the involvement of PAF in autoimmune and inflammatory human diseases including anaphylaxis rheumatoid arthritis acute inflammation asthma endotoxic shock ischemia gastrointestinal ulceration transplanted organ rejection reperfusion injury myocardial infarction inflammatory bowel diseases pain edema rhinitis thrombosis bronchitis urticaria psoriasis retinal and corneal diseases chemically induced liver cirrhosis and ovimplantation in pregnancy and acute respiratory distress syndrome. Accordingly another object of the instant invention is to provide a method for treating a PAF receptor mediated medical condition particularly a pathological allergic hypersecretory and or inflammatory condition including those conditions described above comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I to a patient in need of such treatment.

The term patient includes mammals especially humans who use the instant active agents for the prevention or treatment of a medical condition. Administering of the drug to the patient includes both self administration and administration to the patient by another person. The patient may be in need of treatment for an existing disease or medical condition or may desire prophylactic treatment to prevent or reduce the risk of said disease or medical condition.

The term therapeutically effective amount is intended to mean that amount of a drug or pharmaceutical agent that will elicit the biological or medical response of a tissue a system animal or human that is being sought by a researcher veterinarian medical doctor or other clinician. The term prophylactically effective amount is intended to mean that amount of a pharmaceutical drug that will prevent or reduce the risk of occurrence of the biological or medical event that is sought to be prevented in a tissue a system animal or human by a researcher veterinarian medical doctor or other clinician. It is understood that a specific daily dosage amount can simultaneously be both a therapeutically effective amount e.g. for treatment atherosclerosis or pain and a prophylactically effective amount e.g. for prevention of an atherosclerotic disease event or inflammatory or neuropathic pain.

In general PAFR antagonists can be identified as those compounds which have an ICin the PAF Binding Assay that is less than or equal to about 1 M and preferably 200 nM or less and most preferably 40 nM or less.

An effective amount of a PAFR antagonist in the method of this invention is in the range of about 0.1 mg kg to about 100 mg kg of body weight per day preferably 0.1 mg to about 30 mg per kg in single or divided doses. A single daily dose is preferred but not necessary. For an average body weight of 70 kg the dosage level is therefore from about 7 mg to about 2000 mg of drug dosed one to four times per day e.g. 10 mg 25 mg 50 mg 75 mg 100 mg 125 mg 150 mg 175 mg 200 mg 250 mg 500 mg 1000 mg 1500 mg or 2000 mg per dose preferably given as a single daily dose or in divided doses two to four times a day or in sustained release form. It will be understood however that the specific dose level for any particular patient will depend upon a variety of factors including the age body weight general health sex diet time of administration route of administration rate of excretion drug combination and the severity of the patient s condition. A consideration of these factors is well within the purview of the ordinarily skilled clinician for the purpose of determining the therapeutically effective or prophylactically effective dosage amount needed to prevent counter or arrest the progress of the condition. It is expected that the PAFR antagonist will administered chronically on a daily basis for a length of time appropriate to treat or prevent the medical condition relevant to the patient including a course of therapy lasting months years or the life of the patient.

A therapeutically effective amount of a compound of this invention can be used for the preparation of a medicament useful for treating or preventing any of the medical conditions described herein in dosage amounts described herein. For example a compound of this invention can be used for the preparation of a medicament useful for preventing or reducing the risk of developing atherosclerotic disease halting or slowing the progression of atherosclerotic disease once it has become clinically manifest and or preventing or reducing the risk of a first or subsequent occurrence of an atherosclerotic disease event. A compound of this invention can also be used for the preparation of a medicament useful for treating pain. Additionally a compound of this invention can be used for the preparation of a medicament useful for the treatment of a pathological allergic hypersecretory and or inflammatory condition including such conditions described herein. The medicament comprised of a compound of this invention may also be prepared with one or more additional active agents such as those described below.

One or more additional active agents may be administered with a compound of Formula I. The term additional active agent or agents is intended to mean a pharmaceutically active agent or agents different from the compound of Formula I. In a broad embodiment any suitable additional active agent or agents including but not limited to anti atherosclerotic agents such as a lipid modifying compound anti diabetic agents and or anti obesity agents and additional pain reducing agents may be used in any combination with the compound of Formula I in a single dosage formulation or may be administered to the patient in one or more separate dosage formulations which allows for concurrent or sequential administration of the active agents. The additional active agent or agents may have more than one pharmaceutical activity for example it may have both lipid modifying effects and anti diabetic activity. Examples of additional active agents which may be employed include but are not limited to HMG CoA reductase inhibitors which include statins in their lactonized or dihydroxy open acid forms and pharmaceutically acceptable salts and esters thereof including but not limited to lovastatin MEVACOR see U.S. Pat. No. 4 342 767 simvastatin ZOCOR see U.S. Pat. No. 4 444 784 pravastatin particularly the sodium salt thereof PRAVACHOL see U.S. Pat. No. 4 346 227 fluvastatin particularly the sodium salt thereof LESCOL see U.S. Pat. No. 5 354 772 atorvastatin particularly the calcium salt thereof LIPITOR see U.S. Pat. No. 5 273 995 pitavastatin also referred to as NK 104 see PCT international publication number WO 97 23200 and rosuvastatin CRESTOR see U.S. Pat. No. 5 260 440 cholesterol absorption inhibitors CAI for example ezetimibe ZETIA or a combination of a CAI with a statin such as ezetimibe with simvastatin VYTORIN or with atorvastatin 5 lipoxygenase inhibitors cholesterol ester transfer protein CETP inhibitors for example anacetrapib or JTT 705 HMG CoA synthase inhibitors squalene epoxidase inhibitors squalene synthetase inhibitors also known as squalene synthase inhibitors acyl coenzyme A cholesterol acyltransferase ACAT inhibitors including selective inhibitors of ACAT 1 or ACAT 2 as well as dual inhibitors of ACAT 1 and 2 microsomal triglyceride transfer protein MTP inhibitors niacin in immediate release or controlled release forms and particularly in niacin in combination with a DP antagonist such as laropiprant TREDAPTIVE and or with an HMG CoA reductase inhibitor niacin receptor agonists such as acipimox and acifran as well as niacin receptor partial agonists bile acid sequestrants LDL low density lipoprotein receptor inducers platelet aggregation inhibitors for example glycoprotein IIb IIIa fibrinogen receptor antagonists and aspirin human peroxisome proliferator activated receptor gamma PPAR agonists including the compounds commonly referred to as glitazones for example pioglitazone and rosiglitazone and including those compounds included within the structural class known as thiazolidinediones as well as those PPAR agonists outside the thiazolidinedione structural class PPAR agonists such as clofibrate fenofibrate including micronized fenofibrate and gemfibrozil PPAR dual agonists vitamin B also known as pyridoxine and the pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof such as the HCl salt vitamin B also known as cyanocobalamin folic acid or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester thereof such as the sodium salt and the methylglucamine salt anti oxidant vitamins such as vitamin C and E and beta carotene beta blockers angiotensin II antagonists such as losartan angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors such as enalapril and captopril calcium channel blockers such as nifedipine and diltiazam endothelian antagonists agents that enhance ABCA1 gene expression FXR and LXR ligands including both inhibitors and agonists and bisphosphonate compounds such as alendronate sodium. Anti obesity agents can be employed in combination with a compound of this invention including but not limited to sibutramine orlistat topiramate naltrexone bupriopion phentermine and phentermine topiramate combination QNEXA NPY5 antagonists Acetyl CoA Carboxylase 1 and 2 ACC inhibitors MCH1R antagonists and CB1 antagonists inverse agonists such as those described in WO03 077847 and WO05 000809. Additional anti diabetes agents which may be employed in combination with a compound of this invention include but are not limited to DPP 4 dipeptidylpeptidase 4 inhibitors such as sitagliptin JANUVIA JANUMET and vildagliptin GALVUS sulfonylureas e.g. chlorpropamide tolazamide glyburide glipizide and glimepiride biguanides e.g. metformin alpha glucosidase inhibitors e.g. acarbose and miglitol meglitinides e.g. repaglinide glucagon receptor antagonists and glucokinase activators. Other advantageous pharmaceutical combinations comprise the compounds of this invention in combination with anti cholinergics such as ipratropium bromide and tiotropium bronchodilators such as the beta agonist salbutamol metaproterenol terbutaline fenoterol salmeterol formoterol and the like and the anti asthmatic drugs theophylline choline theophyllinate and enprofylline and the calcium antagonists nifedipine diltiazem nitrendipine verapamil nimodipine felodipine etc. Compounds of this invention can be used in combination with orally inhaled corticosteroids such as beclomethasone e.g. QVAR Inhalation Aerosol budesonide e.g. Pulmicort Respules flunisolide e.g. AEROBID and AEROBID M Inhaler System fluticasone e.g. FLOVENT DISKUS inhalation powder FLOVENT HFA Inhalation Aerosol mometasone e.g. ASMANEX TWISTHALER and triamcinolone e.g. AZMACORT Inhalation Aerosol and also with inhaled corticosteroid LABA products such as fluticasone propionate salmeterol e.g. ADVAIR DISKUS corticosteroids such as hydrocortisone methylprednisolone betamethasone dexamethasone beclomethasone and the like with leukotriene receptor antagonists such as montelukast e.g. SINGULAIR phosphodiesterase 4 PDE4 inhibitors such as roflumilast N Cyclopropyl 1 3 1 oxido 3 pyridinylethynyl phenyl 1 4 dihydro 1 8 naphthyridin 4 one 3 carboxamide and the compounds disclosed in PCT Publication WO2003 018579 and Very Late Antigen 4 VLA4 inhibitors such as the compounds disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 229 011 particularly R411 N 2 Chloro 6 methylbenzoyl 4 2 6 dichlorobenzoyl amino L phenylalanine 2 diethylamino ethyl ester which is an ester pro drug of the active moiety N 2 chloro 6 methylbenzoyl 4 2 6 dichlorobenzoyl amino L phenylalanine and the compounds disclosed in PCT publication WO2006 023396.

Still other types of agent that can be used in combination with the compounds of this invention for the treatment of pain are non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs NSAIDs for example aspirin ibuprofen ketoprofen and naproxen non opioid analgesics such as acetaminophen and cyclooxygenase 2 COX 2 inhibitors such as etoricoxib ARCOXIA and celecoxib CELEBREX .

In the method of treatment of this invention the PAFR antagonists may be administered via any suitable route of administration such as orally parenterally or rectally in dosage unit formulations containing conventional non toxic pharmaceutically acceptable carriers adjuvants and vehicles. The term parenteral as used herein includes subcutaneous injections intravenous intramuscular intrasternal injection or infusion techniques. Oral formulations are preferred.

For oral use the pharmaceutical compositions of this invention containing the active ingredient may be in forms such as tablets troches lozenges aqueous or oily suspensions dispersible powders or granules emulsions hard or soft capsules or syrups or elixirs. Compositions intended for oral use may be prepared according to any method known to the art for the manufacture of pharmaceutical compositions and such compositions may contain one or more agents selected from the group consisting of sweetening agents flavoring agents coloring agents and preserving agents in order to provide pharmaceutically elegant and palatable preparations. Tablets contain the active ingredient in admixture with non toxic pharmaceutically acceptable excipients which are suitable for the manufacture of tablets. These excipients may be for example inert diluents such as calcium carbonate sodium carbonate lactose mannitol calcium phosphate or sodium phosphate granulating and disintegrating agents for example corn starch or alginic acid binding agents for example starch gelatin or acacia and lubricating agents for example magnesium stearate stearic acid or talc.

Oral immediate release and time controlled release dosage forms may be employed as well as enterically coated oral dosage forms. Tablets may be uncoated or they may be coated by known techniques for aesthetic purposes to mask taste or for other reasons. Coatings can also be used to delay disintegration and absorption in the gastrointestinal tract and thereby provide a sustained action over a longer period. For example a time delay material such as glyceryl monostearate or glyceryl distearate may be employed. One example of a time controlled release device is described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 366 738. They may also be coated by the technique described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 256 108 4 166 452 and 4 265 874 to form osmotic therapeutic tablets for controlled release.

Formulations for oral use may also be presented as hard gelatin capsules wherein the active ingredient is mixed with an inert solid diluent for example calcium carbonate calcium phosphate or kaolin or as soft gelatin capsules wherein the active ingredients is mixed with water or miscible solvents such as propylene glycol PEGs and ethanol or an oil medium for example peanut oil liquid paraffin or olive oil.

Aqueous suspensions contain the active material in admixture with excipients suitable for the manufacture of aqueous suspensions. Oily suspensions may be formulated by suspending the active ingredient in a vegetable oil for example arachis oil olive oil sesame oil or coconut oil or in mineral oil such as liquid paraffin. The oily suspensions may contain a thickening agent for example beeswax hard paraffin or cetyl alcohol. Sweetening agents such as those set forth above and flavoring agents may be added to provide a palatable oral preparation. These compositions may be preserved by the addition of an anti oxidant such as ascorbic acid. Syrups and elixirs may be formulated with sweetening agents for example glycerol propylene glycol sorbitol or sucrose.

The instant invention also encompasses a process for preparing a pharmaceutical composition comprising combining a compound of Formula I with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. Also encompassed is the pharmaceutical composition which is made by combining a compound of Formula I with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The carrier is comprised of one or more pharmaceutically acceptable excipients.

The compounds of structural Formula I of the present invention can be prepared according to the procedures of the following Schemes and Examples using appropriate materials and are further exemplified by the specific examples which follow. Moreover by utilizing the procedures described herein one of ordinary skill in the art can readily prepare additional compounds of the present invention claimed herein. The compounds illustrated in the examples are not however to be construed as forming the only genus that is considered as the invention. All temperatures are degrees Celsius unless otherwise noted. Mass spectra MS were measured by electron spray ion mass spectroscopy ES MS .

The instant compounds are generally isolated in a pharmaceutically acceptable form which can either be the free base or an appropriate salt derivative such as those described above. The free amine bases corresponding to the isolated salts can be generated by neutralization with a suitable base such as aqueous sodium hydrogencarbonate sodium carbonate sodium hydroxide or potassium hydroxide and extraction of the liberated amine free base into an organic solvent followed by evaporation. The amine free base isolated in this manner can be further converted into another pharmaceutically acceptable salt by dissolution in an organic solvent followed by addition of the appropriate acid and subsequent evaporation precipitation or crystallization.

Some abbreviations used herein are as follows ABCA1 is adenosyltriphosphate binding cassette family A1 Ac is acetyl AcOH is acetic acid AIBN is 2 2 azobis 2 methylpropionitrile aq. is aqueous Ar is Aryl Atm. is atmospheric pressure units Bn is benzyl Boc is tertbutylcarbamoyl br is broad Bu is butyl Bu is cyclobutyl Bu is isobutyl Bu is tert butyl celite is Celite diatomaceous earth conc. is concentrated cpm is counts per minute is chemical shift d is doublet DAST is diethylaminosulfur trifluoride DBU is 1 8 diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undec 7 ene DCE is 1 2 dichloroethane DCM is dichloromethane d is doublet DEAD is diethylazodicarboxylate DIAD is diisopropylazodicarboxylate DIBAL His diisobutylaluminum hydride DIPEA is diisopropylethylamine DMAP is 4 dimethylaminopyridine DME is 1 2 dimethoxyethane DMF is N N dimethylformamide dppf is 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene DMSO is dimethyl sulfoxide dppf is 1 1 Bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene EDC is N 3 dimethylaminopropyl N ethylcarbodiimide hydrochloride EDTA is ethylendiamine tetraacetic acid equiv. is equivalent s ES MS is electrospray ion mass spectroscopy Et is ethyl EtO is diethyl ether EtOH is ethanol EtOAc is ethyl acetate FXR is farnesoid X receptor g is gram h is hours HATU is O 7 azabenzotriazol 1 yl N N N N tetramethyluronium hexafluorophosphate HetAr or HAR is Heteroaryl HMG CoA is 3 hydroxy 3 methyl glutaryl coenzyme A H NMR is proton nuclear magnetic resonance HOAt is 1 hydroxy 7 azabenzotriazole HOBt is 1 hydroxybenzotriazole HPLC is high performance liquid chromatography Hz is hertz i is Iso ICis concentration at which 50 inhibition exists J is internuclear coupling constant kg is kilogram LDA is lithium diisopropylamide LG is leaving group LHMDS is lithium bis trimethylsilyl amide LTBis leukotriene B LXR is liver X receptor m is multiplet M is molar Me is methyl m.p. is melting point mg is milligram g is microgram MeCN is acetonitrile MeOH is methanol MHz is megahertz min is minute mL is milliliter mm is millimeter L is microliter mM is milimolar M is micromolar mmol is milimoles Ms is methanesulfonyl MS is mass spectrum and a mass spectrum obtained by ES MS may be denoted herein by ES m z is mass to charge ratio n is normal N is normal NaHMDS is sodium bis trimethylsilyl amide NBS is N bromosuccinimide NIS is N iodosuccinimide nm is nanometer nM is nanomolar NMM is N methylmorpholine NMO is N methylmorpholine N oxide NMP is N methylpyrrolidin 2 one Pr is propyl Pr is cyclopropyl Pr is isopropyl Pr is n propyl PrOH is isopropyl alcohol p is pentet p is para PEG is polyethylene glycol Ph is phenyl Phth is phthalimidoyl PPAR is peroxisome proliferator activated receptor alpha p TSA is para toluenesulfonic acid PyBOP is benzotriaxole 1 yl oxy tris pyrrolidino phosphonium hexafluorophosphate q is quartet rt is room temperature s is singlet satd. is saturated sec is secondary t is triplet BuOH is tert butanol tert is tertiary Tf is trifluoromethanesulfonyl TFA is trifluoroacetic acid and THF is tetrahydrofuran TMS is trimethylsilyl Ts is tosyl UV is ultraviolet wt is weight wt. is weight percent w v is weight volume ratio x g is times gravity C. is degrees Celsius.

In the Schemes all substituents are as defined above unless indicated otherwise. Reaction schemes A P illustrate the methods employed in the synthesis of the compounds of the present invention of structural Formula I. All abbreviations are as defined above unless indicated otherwise.

Reaction scheme A illustrates a preferred method for the synthesis of compounds of type 2. In this reaction an aryl amine of type 1 is treated with a suitable organic soluble activating reagent such as tert butyl nitrite or isoamyl nitrite or the like in the presence of a halogenated metal capable of transferring a single halogen atom such as copper II bromide or the like. The reaction is typically run in an inert solvent such as acetonitrile or THF at reaction temperatures generally between 0 C. and room temperature. An alternate method is commonly referred to as the Sandmeyer reaction whereby compounds of type 1 are treated with sodium nitrite in the presence of a protic acid with a weakly nucleophilic conjugate base such as concentrated sulfuric acid or the like in a mixture of suitable solvents such as EtOH and water or the like at 0 C. for 15 30 min. At this time a suitable halogen source such as sodium iodide or copper I iodide or the like is added and the reaction is continued at 0 C. for 15 60 min. The product of either method is an aryl halide of type 2 that can be elaborated to compounds of the present invention I as described in the subsequent schemes.

Reaction scheme B illustrates an alternate method for the synthesis of compounds of type 4 that represent a regiospecific subset of compounds of type 2. The product of the reaction 4 is synthesized using a process commonly referred to as C H activation using methodology developed by Sanford et al. 2006 8 2523 2526 . In this reaction a suitable Rgroup such as 2 pyridyl or 1 2 4 oxadiazol 3 yl directs Pd II insertion into a C H bond on compounds of type 3 using a suitable pre catalyst such as palladium acetate by coordinating to palladium via a lone pair of electrons on R. The reaction is run in the presence of a suitable halogenated oxidizing agent such as N bromosuccinimide or N iodosuccinimide that facilitates the oxidation of the palladium aryl complex followed by reductive elimination to afford a single regioisomer aryl halide of type 4. The reaction can be run in a number of suitable solvents such as acetic acid or acetonitrile typically at 100 C. for 12 h. The reaction may be accelerated by the use of a microwave reactor at elevated temperatures. The product 4 can be elaborated to compounds of the present invention I as described in the subsequent schemes.

Reaction scheme C illustrates using the Suzuki reaction for the synthesis of compounds of type 8. Compound 5 can be treated with an aryl or heteroaryl boronic acid of type 6 or alternatively an aryl or heteroaryl boronate of type 7 in the presence of a suitable palladium catalyst such as 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II or tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 or the like and a mild base such as sodium carbonate sodium phosphate tribasic or the like 1991 63 419 422 . The reaction is usually performed in a suitable degassed aqueous mixture of inert organic solvents such as toluene ethanol or dioxane at elevated temperatures generally between 70 C. and the boiling temperature of the solvent mixture for a period of 3 24 h. Conditions suitable for performing Suzuki reactions at room temperature have been reported in the literature see 2000 122 4020 4028 and references therein . In addition the reaction may be accelerated by the use of a microwave reactor. The product of the reaction 8 can be elaborated to compounds of the present invention I as described in the subsequent schemes.

Reaction scheme D illustrates a method for the elaboration of compound 9. In this method 9 is treated with a heterocycle Het H 10 such as pyrazole in a copper catalyzed N arylation reaction. Similar copper catalyzed N arylation chemistry wherein Het H could be imidazole or 1 2 4 triazole has also been developed. The reaction is commonly catalyzed by a suitable copper I reagent such as copper I iodide or the like in the presence of a ligand such as 1 10 phenanthroline or trans N N dimethylcyclohexane 1 2 diamine in a suitable solvent such as toluene DMF or DMSO or the like at reaction temperatures generally between 100 C. and the boiling temperature of the reaction mixture for periods up to 24 h. The reaction requires the presence of a suitable base such as cesium carbonate or potassium phosphate tribasic or the like. 2004 69 5578 5587 Recent literature cites the use of copper I oxide and salicylaldoxime as the catalyst and ligand respectively to effect the N arylation reaction 2004 2004 695 709 In addition the reaction may be accelerated by the use of a microwave reactor. The product of the reaction is a heterocyclic substituted compound of type 11 such that the aforementioned heterocycle is bonded to the central phenyl ring through an endocyclic nitrogen which can be elaborated to compounds of the present invention I as described in the subsequent schemes.

Reaction scheme E illustrates a method for the elaboration of compound 12 to afford compound 13. In this method 12 is treated with methanol in the presence of a suitable palladium catalyst such as 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II or the like and a tertiary amine base such as triethylamine or diisopropylethylamine or the like in an inert organic solvent like dimethylformamide. The reaction is usually conducted at elevated temperature typically between 50 C. and 100 C. for periods of 3 24 h under an atmosphere of carbon monoxide 1974 39 3318 3326 . In certain cases it may be preferable to use elevated pressures of carbon monoxide or an additive such as lithium chloride to promote or accelerate the reaction. The product ester 13 can be elaborated to compounds of the present invention I as described in the subsequent schemes.

Reaction scheme F illustrates a method for the elaboration of compound 12 to afford compound 14. In this method 12 is reacted with potassium cyanide or a similar cyanide source such as trimethylsilylcyanide or the like in the presence of a suitable palladium catalyst ligand system. It may be preferable to use an inorganic additive such as copper I iodide and or a mild base such as triethylamine to accelerate or promote the reaction. The reaction is usually performed in a suitable degassed inert organic solvent preferably a polar aprotic solvent such as acetonitrile DMF or NMP at elevated temperatures generally between 50 140 C. for a period of 3 24 h. The product nitrile 14 can be elaborated to compounds of the present invention I as described in the subsequent schemes.

Reaction scheme G illustrates a preferred method for the synthesis of compounds of type 18. In this method a protected aminoalcohol of type 15 is reacted in the presence of triphenylphosphine and an activating agent such as carbon tetrabromide for which the conjugate base from the initial reaction bromide ion subsequently participates in a nucleophilic displacement of the activated alcohol moiety. The reaction can be run in a number of inert solvents such as THF acetonitrile or DCM and is commonly initiated at reduced temperatures such as 0 C. while permitting slow warming to room temperature. The product of the reaction is a bromide of type 16 that is treated with a boronic acid 17 in the presence of a suitable catalyst such as nickel diiodide and ligand such as trans 2 aminocyclohexanol according to the procedures reported by Fu et al. 2006 128 5360 5361 in a modification of the method commonly referred to as the Suzuki reaction. The reaction requires the addition of a suitable base such as sodium bis trimethylsilyl amide and is typically assembled and run under an inert atmosphere preferably with the assistance of a glove box generally at temperatures between 60 C. and 80 C. for between 5 12 h. The product of the reaction is a substituted cyclic amine of type 18 which can be elaborated to compounds of the present invention I as described in the subsequent schemes.

Reaction scheme H illustrates a general method for the synthesis of compounds of type 21. In this method commercially available amine 19 is treated with an activating acid such as TFA or the like in the presence of a suitable olefin of type 20 in a 3 2 cycloaddition reaction in which amine 19 in activated by the acid source such that it can subsequently participate in the cycloaddition reaction. Terao Y. et al. 1985 33 2762 2766 The reaction is typically conducted at room temperature in an inert solvent such as DCM or benzene or the like. The product of the reaction is a pyrrolidine of type 21 which can be elaborated to compounds of the present invention I as described in the subsequent schemes.

Reaction scheme I illustrates an alternate general method for the synthesis of compounds of type 18. In this method a cyclic amine ketone of type 22 is treated with a base such as lithium bis trimethylsilyl amide or LDA or the like followed by the addition of a suitable triflating reagent such as triflic anhydride. The reaction is typically performed in an etheral solvent such as diethyl ether or THF or a mixture thereof at 78 C. The product of the reaction is a vinyl triflate of type 23 that is reacted with an aryl boronic acid of type 17 in a method commonly referred to as a Suzuki reaction. The reaction is performed in the presence of a suitable palladium catalyst such as 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II or tetrakis triphenylhosphine palladium 0 or the like and a mild base such as sodium carbonate sodium phosphate tribasic or the like 1991 63 419 422 . The reaction is usually performed in a suitable degassed aqueous mixture of inert solvents such as toluene ethanol or dioxane at elevated temperatures generally between 70 C. and the boiling temperature of the reaction mixture for a period of 3 24 h. Recently conditions suitable for performing Suzuki reaction at room temperature have been published for example see 2000 122 4020 4028 and references therein . The product of the reaction is a vinyl compound of type 24 that is converted to a saturated cyclic amine of type 18 by treatment with a suitable palladium catalyst such as palladium on carbon at either atmospheric or elevated pressures of hydrogen. The reaction is usually conducted in an inert solvent such as EtOH or EtOAc or a mixture thereof at room temperature for a period of 3 5 h. The cyclic amine product 18 can be elaborated to compounds of the present invention I as described in the subsequent schemes.

Reaction scheme J illustrates a general method for the synthesis of compounds of type 26. In this method a cyclic amine ketone of type 22 is treated with an organometallic reagent of type 25 commonly referred to as Grignard or Gilman reagents capable of transferring an aryl group to afford a tertiary alcohol of type 26. It is customary to conduct the reaction in a suitable etheral solvent such as diethyl ether or THF or a mixture thereof at temperatures between 78 C. and room temperature. The product of the reaction a tertiary alcohol of type 26 can be elaborated to compounds of the present invention I as described in the subsequent schemes.

Reaction scheme K illustrates a general method for the synthesis of compounds of type 27. In this method a tertiary alcohol of type 26 is treated with a fluorinating reagent such as DAST or Deoxofluor in a suitable inert solvent such as DCM at 78 C. The product of the reaction fluoride 27 can be elaborated to compounds of the present invention I as described in the subsequent schemes.

Reaction scheme L illustrates a general method for the synthesis of compounds of type 33 wherein v a suitable Calkyl substituent optionally substituted with F as defined for substituent z in Formula I. In this method an aryl ketone of type 28 is treated with a phosphonate anion to afford an unsaturated ester 29 in a reaction commonly known as the Horner Emmons reaction. The phosphonate reagent trimethylphosphonoacetate or the like is initially treated with a suitable base such as sodium hydride typically in an etheral solvent such as diethyl ether or THF commonly between 0 C. and room temperature following which the ketone 28 is added to the reaction mixture. The product is an unsaturated ester of type 29 that is treated with an excess of nitromethane in the presence of a suitable base such as cesium carbonate or the like in an inert polar aprotic solvent such as DMSO at elevated temperatures between 120 C. and the boiling point of the reaction mixture. In addition the reaction may be accelerated by the use of a microwave reactor. The product of the reaction is a nitroester of type 30 which is treated under similar reaction conditions as those described above in Scheme I for the reduction of 24 to amine 18. The direct product of the reaction a aminoester of type 31 can spontaneously undergo cyclization to a lactam of type 32 during the reduction step to afford a crude mixture of both amine 31 and lactam 32. This product mixture can be converted to a lactam of type 32 by heating at elevated temperatures between 40 C. and the boiling point of the reaction mixture in a suitable inert solvent such as EtOH. It is common to add a suitable base such as potassium carbonate or a catalyst such as DMAP to accelerate the reaction. The product of the reaction is a lactam of type 32 that is treated with a suitable reducing agent such as borane THF complex or the like in an inert solvent such as THF or toluene at elevated temperatures between 50 C. and the boiling temperature of the reaction mixture for 1 24 h. It is common to heat the reaction mixture in an appropriate sealed vessel. The product of the reaction is an amine of type 33 which can be elaborated to compounds of the present invention I as described in subsequent schemes.

Scheme M illustrates that compounds of structural formula 34 can be elaborated to a variety of heterocyclic HAR derivatives of structural formula 35 using known methods in organic synthesis. Specific examples of such transformations are shown in the Examples section. Leading references for effecting such transformations include 

Scheme N illustrates methods for the syntheses of compounds of type 39. In this scheme an ester of type 36 can be hydrolyzed to a carboxylic acid of type 37 using methods known to those skilled in the art of organic synthesis. The product of the reaction is an aryl carboxylic acid of type 37 that can participate in amide bond coupling reactions with an amine of type 38 to afford an amide structural formula 39 in an appropriate inert solvent such as DMF DCM or the like and may be performed with a variety of reagents suitable for amide coupling reactions such as HATU EDC or PyBOP. Preferred conditions for the amide bond coupling reaction shown in reaction Scheme N are known to those skilled in organic synthesis. Such modifications may include but are not limited to the use of basic reagents such as triethylamine DIPEA or NMM or the addition of an additive such as DMAP HOAt or HOBt.

Scheme O illustrates that compounds of structural formula 40 can be elaborated to a variety of heterocyclic HAR derivatives of structural formula 41 using known methods in organic synthesis as indicated previously in Scheme M. Specific examples of such transformations are shown in the Examples section.

Scheme P illustrates a method for the resolution of representative compounds or intermediates of structural formula 42. Generally representative compounds or intermediates en route to their preparation may be resolved to afford enantiomerically pure compounds such as 43 and 44 by chiral stationary phase liquid chromatography techniques or other suitable methods known in organic synthesis.

Intermediates used in the synthesis of compounds of this invention can be prepared using the following procedures. In the Tables associated with the following Schemes compounds having mass spectral data were synthetically prepared.

For compounds that were enantiomerically resolved according to the procedures described in Scheme P and other Schemes and Examples herein the slower eluting enantiomers yielded preferable ICresults in the PAF Binding Assay over the corresponding faster eluting enantiomers with the exception of compound 1Ar where the faster eluting enantiomer was preferred. The absolute stereochemistry of the isolated enantiomers was not determined.

 1 1 Bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II 265 mg 0.360 mmol was added to a solution of methyl 3 amino 4 iodobenzoate 2.00 g 7.22 mmol 3 5 bistrifluorophenylboronic acid 2.05 g 7.94 mmol and sodium carbonate 5.40 mL of a 2.0 M aqueous solution 10.83 mmol in EtOH toluene 12.0 mL of an 80 20 mixture respectively at rt. The resulting solution was heated to 125 C. in a sealed microwave vial for 20 min. After cooling to rt the reaction mixture was filtered through a short column of Celite eluting with EtOAc. The filtrate was washed with water and brine dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo. The crude residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel isocratic elution 10 EtOAc hexanes as eluent to furnish the title compound i 1a. m z ES 364 MH .

tert Butyl nitrite 697 L 5.86 mmol was added to a stirred suspension of copper II bromide 1.05 g 4.69 mmol in acetonitrile 40.0 mL at 0 C. After 5 min i 1a 1.42 g 3.91 mmol was added in one portion and the resulting suspension was warmed slowly to rt. After 24 h the reaction mixture was quenched with 1.0 M HCl and partially concentrated to approximately half of the original volume. The resulting mixture was extracted with ether and the combined organics were washed with brine dried magnesium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo. The crude residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel isocratic elution 5 EtOAc hexanes as eluent to afford the title compound i 1b. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.42 d 1H J 1.6 Hz 8.11 dd 1H J 1.6 8.1 Hz 7.97 m 1H 7.46 m 2H 7.46 d 1H J 8.0 Hz 4.00 s 3H .

A sodium nitrite solution 456 mg in 5.00 mL of water 6.61 mmol was added slowly dropwise to a stirred solution of i 1a 1.60 g 4.40 mmol and conc. sulfuric acid 1.40 mL 26.3 mmol in DME water 2.5 1 mixture respectively at 0 C. After 30 min a sodium iodide solution 1.98 g in 5.00 mL water 13.2 mmol was added and the resulting mixture was allowed to stir at 0 C. for an additional 30 min. The reaction mixture was quenched with 1.0 M sodium thiosulfate and extracted with ether. The combined organics were washed with brine dried magnesium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo. The crude residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 0 20 EtOAc hexanes as eluent to afford the title compound i 1c.

Following procedures similar to those described for the preparation of intermediate i 1b and i 1c the following compounds in Table i 1 can be prepared.

Tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 208 mg 0.180 mmol was added to a solution of 3 ethoxycarbonylphenyl boronic acid 350 mg 1.80 mmol 2 bromopyridine 189 L 1.99 mmol and potassium carbonate 499 mg 3.61 mmol in EtOH toluene 4.00 mL of an 80 20 mixture respectively at rt. The resulting solution was heated to 100 C. in a sealed microwave vial for a total of 15 min. After cooling to rt the reaction mixture was filtered through a short column of Celite eluting with EtOAc. The filtrate was washed with water and brine dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo. The crude residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel isocratic elution 10 EtOAc hexanes as eluent to afford the title compound i 2a. m z ES 228 MH .

Palladium acetate 3.95 mg 0.180 mmol was added to a solution of i 2a 80.0 mg 0.352 mmol and N bromosuccinimide 125 mg 0.704 mmol in acetic acid 2.00 mL . The resulting mixture was heated to 160 C. in a sealed microwave vial for 10 min. After cooling to rt the reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo. The crude residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel isocratic elution 15 EtOAc hexanes as eluent to afford the title compound i 2b. m z ES 307 MH .

Hydroxylamine 1.00 mL of a 50 aqueous solution 16.3 mmol was added to a solution of 3 bromobenzonitrile 750 mg 4.12 mmol and potassium carbonate 1.00 mg 7.24 mol in EtOH 3.00 mL . The resulting mixture was heated to 120 C. in a sealed microwave vial for 40 min. After cooling to rt the reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound i 3a. m z ES 215 MH .

N 3 Dimethylaminopropyl N ethylcarbodiimide hydrochloride 562 mg 193 mmol was added to a stirred solution of i 3a 525 mg 2.44 mmol acetic acid 168 L 2.93 mmol and 1 hydroxybenzotriazole 486 mg 3.17 mmol in DCM 10.0 mL . The resulting mixture was allowed to stir at rt for 20 min at which time the reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo. The crude residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 25 50 EtOAc hexanes as eluent to afford the title compound i 3b. m z ES 257 MH .

A solution of i 3b 417 mg 1.62 mmol in toluene 5.00 mL was heated to reflux. The reaction flask was equipped with a Dean Stark trap and molecular sieves were added to the reaction mixture. After 5 h the reaction mixture was filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The crude residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 0 40 EtOAc hexanes as eluent to afford the title compound i 3c. m z ES 239 MH .

Palladium II acetate 24.0 mg 0.107 mmol and 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene 118 mg 0.213 mmol were added to a stirred solution of i 3c 255 mg 1.07 mmol in triethylamine DMF methanol 10.5 mL of a 1 10 10 mixture respectively at rt. The reaction mixture was saturated with carbon monoxide and then heated to 70 C. under a carbon monoxide Atmosphere balloon for approximately 4 h. After cooling to rt the reaction mixture was filtered through a short column of Celite eluting with DCM. The filtrate was partially concentrated in vacuo and diluted with EtOAc. The organic phase was washed with water and brine dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo. Purification of the crude residue by flash chromatography on silica gel isocratic elution 20 EtOAc hexanes as eluent afforded the title compound i 3d. m z ES 219 MH .

Compound i 3e was prepared following procedures similar to those described for the preparation of i 2b substituting i 3d for i 2a. m z ES 297 MH .

Compound i 4 a was prepared following procedures similar to those described for the preparation of i 1a substituting methyl 4 iodobenzoate for methyl 3 amino 4 iodobenzoate. m z ES 349 MH . H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.20 d 2H J 8.2 Hz 8.07 s 2H 7.93 s 1H 7.71 d 2H J 8.4 Hz 4.00 s 3H .

Triphenylphosphine 727 mg 2.77 mmol was added to a stirred solution of tert butyl 3 hydroxypyrrolidine 1 carboxylate 173 mg 0.924 mmol and carbon tetrabromide 919 mg 2.77 mmol in THF 3.00 mL at 0 C. and the resulting mixture was allowed to warm slowly to rt. After 20 h the reaction was filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Purification of the crude residue by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 10 40 EtOAc hexanes as eluent afforded the title compound i 5a m z ES 250 MH . H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 4.49 m 1H 3.81 m 2H 3.63 m 1H 3.53 m 1H 2.33 m 1H 2.26 m 1H 1.49 s 9H .

In a glove box a suspension of nickel iodide 37.5 mg 0.120 mmol trans 2 aminocyclohexanol hydrochloride 18.2 mg 0.120 mmol 5 fluoropyridin 3 yl boronic acid 282 mg 2.00 mmol and sodium bis trimethylsilyl amide 367 mg 2.00 mmol in isopropyl alcohol 3.30 mL was allowed to stir for 5 min. i 5a 250 mg 0.460 mmol was added and the resulting mixture was heated to 80 C. for 5 h. The reaction mixture was cooled to rt poured into satd. aq. NHCl and extracted with EtOAc. The combined organics were washed with brine dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo. Purification of the crude residue by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 10 80 EtOAc hexanes as eluent afforded the title compound i 5b. m z ES 267 MH . H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.39 d 1H J 2.1 Hz 8.37 m 1H 7.31 m 1H 3.88 m 1H 3.64 m 1H 3.24 3.52 m 3H 2.35 m 1H 2.01 m 1H 1.51 s 9H .

4.0 M HCl in dioxane 6.50 mL 26.0 mmol was added in two portions to a stirred solution of i 5b 268 mg 1.01 mmol in methanol 10.0 mL at 0 C. After 2 h the excess HCl was purged via a stream of N and the resulting mixture was concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound i 5c. m z ES 167 MH .

Following procedures similar to those described for the preparation of intermediate i 5c the following compounds in Table i 5 can be prepared.

5 bromo 2 methoxypyridine 324 L 2.50 mmol was added dropwise to a stirred suspension of n butyllithium 1.72 mL of a 1.6 M hexanes solution 2.75 mmol in ether 10.0 mL at 78 C. After 10 min a solution of N Boc 3 pyrrolidinone 463 mg 2.50 mmol in ether 2.00 mL was added dropwise and the reaction mixture was allowed to stir at 78 C. After 2 h the reaction was quenched with satd. aq. NHCl and extracted with EtOAc. The combined organics were washed with brine dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo. Purification of the crude residue by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 10 80 EtOAc hexanes as eluent afforded the title compound i 6a. m z ES 295 MH . HNMR 500 MHz CDCl 831 s 1H 7.71 d 1H J 7.1 Hz 6.79 dd 1H J 12 8.6 Hz 3.97 s 3H 3.40 3.80 m 4H 2.25 m 2H 1.51 s 9H .

i 6b was prepared following procedures similar to those described for the preparation of i 5c substituting i 6a for i 5b. m z ES 195 MH .

i 6x and i 6y were prepared following procedures similar to those described above in step A substituting 3 bromo 5 fluoropyridine and 3 bromopyridine respectively for 3 bromo 5 methoxypyridine. For i 6x m z ES 283 MH . For i 6y m z ES 265 MH .

Following procedures similar to those described for the preparation of intermediate i 6b the following compounds in Table i 6 can be prepared.

Bis 2 methoxyethyl aminosulfur trifluoride 203 L 1.097 mmol was added to a stirred solution of i 6c 290 mg 1.097 mmol in DCM 14.0 mL at 78 C. After 45 min the reaction mixture was quenched with said. aq. NaHCOand extracted with DCM. The combined organics were washed with brine dried magnesium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo Purification of the crude residue by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 0 10 methanol DCM as eluent afforded the title compound i 7a. m z ES 267 MH . HNMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.71 d 1H J 2.0 Hz 8.63 dd 1H J 1.0 4.5 Hz 7.77 d 1H J 8.0 Hz 7.36 dd 1H J 5.0 8.0 Hz 3.99 m 1H 3.78 m 1H 3.66 m 2H 2.26 2.53 m 2H 1.51 s 9H .

i 7b was prepared following procedures similar to those described for the preparation of i 5c substituting i 7a for i 5b. m z ES 167 MH .

Following procedures similar to those described for the preparation of intermediate i 7b the following compounds can be prepared.

Sodium hydride 192 mg of a 60 wt. suspension 4.80 mmol was added in several portions to a stirred solution of trimethylphosphonoacetate 712 L 4.40 mmol in THF 20.0 mL . After 5 min 1 pyridin 3 ylethanone 440 L 4.00 mmol was added dropwise and the resulting mixture was heated to reflux. After 20 h the reaction mixture was cooled to rt poured into said. aq. NHCl and extracted with EtOAc. The combined organics were washed with brine dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo. Purification of the crude residue by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 0 60 EtOAc hexanes as eluent afforded the title compound i 8a as a separable mixture of two isomers. m z ES 178 MH .

For i 8a isomer A H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.74 s 1H 8.61 m 1H 7.77 dd 1H J 1.6 8.0 Hz 7.33 m 1H 6.17 d 1H J 0.9 Hz 3.78 s 3H 2.60 d 3H J 1.1 Hz .

For i 8a isomer B H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.57 dd 1H J 1.3 4.8 Hz 8.47 d 1H J 2.3 Hz 7.56 m 1H 7.30 dd 1H J 4.8 7.8 Hz 6.03 s 1H 3.59 s 3H 2.22 d 3H J 0.9 Hz .

A solution of i 8a 318 mg 1.80 mmol nitromethane 194 L 3.59 mmol and cesium carbonate 526 mg 1.62 mmol in DMSO 8.90 mL was heated in a sealed tube within a microwave reactor at 140 C. for 25 min. The reaction mixture was cooled to rt poured into satd. aq. NHCl and extracted with EtOAc. The combined organics were washed with brine dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo. Purification of the crude residue by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 10 60 EtOAc hexanes as eluent afforded the title compound i 8b. m z ES 239 MH . H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.66 d 1H J 2.5 Hz 8.56 dd 1H J 1.5 4.7 Hz 7.67 m 1H 7.33 dd 1H J 4.8 8.2 Hz 4.96 m 2H 3.64 s 3H 2.98 m 2H 1.70 s 3H .

i 8b 75.0 mg 0.315 mmol in methanol 7.50 mL was saturated with hydrogen 1 Atm. and passed through a column of Pd C using an H Cube flow apparatus 1.0 mL min . The column was rinsed with hydrogen saturated methanol 25 mL and the combined organics were concentrated in vacuo. The resulting crude residue was dissolved in EtOH 3.50 mL and heated to reflux. After 2 h the reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound i 8c. m z ES 177 MH .

A solution of i 8c 55.5 mg 0.315 mmol and borane THF complex 1.26 mL of a 1.0 M THF solution 1.26 mmol in THF 1.50 mL was heated in a sealed tube to 60 C. After 2 h the reaction mixture was cooled to rt and the excess borane was quenched with 1.0 M HCl. The resulting mixture was poured into 1.0 N NaOH saturated with solid NaCl and extracted with EtOAc. The combined organics were dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound i 8d. m z ES 163 MH .

Isobutyl chloroformate 152 L 1.16 mmol was added to a stirred solution of 1 tert butoxycarbonyl pyrrolidine 3 carboxylic acid 237 mg 1.10 mmol and 4 methylmorpholine 182 L 1.65 mmol in THF 5.50 mL at 78 C. After 15 min added acetic hydrazide 2.0 mg 1.10 mmol and the resulting mixture was warmed slowly to rt. After 1 h the reaction mixture was quenched with 0.5 M HCl and extracted with EtOAc. The combined organics were dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound i 8a. m z ES 272 MH .

A solution of i 9a 299 mg 1.10 mmol and phosphorous oxychloride 123 L 1.32 mmol in acetonitrile 5.50 mL was heated to reflux. After 1.5 h the reaction mixture was cooled to rt and concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound i 9b. m z ES 154 MH .

Following procedures similar to those described for the preparation of intermediate i 9b the following compounds can be prepared.

i 10a was prepared following procedures similar to those described for the preparation of i 9a substituting methanolic ammonia for acetic hydrazide. m z ES 215 MH .

Cyanuric chloride 214 mg 1.16 mmol was added to a stirred solution of i 10a 249 mg 1.16 mmol in DMF 5.80 mmol at 0 C. After 2 h the reaction mixture was quenched with satd. aq. NaHCOand extracted with EtOAc. The combined organics were washed with 1.0 N NaOH and brine dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound i 10b. m z ES 197 MH . H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 3.40 3.80 m 4H 3.11 m 1H 2.28 m 2H 1.49 s 9H .

A solution of i 10b 228 mg 1.16 mmol and hydroxylamine 213 L of a 50 w v aq. solution 3.48 mmol in EtOH 5.80 mL was heated to reflux. After 2 h the reaction mixture was cooled to rt and concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound i 10c. m z ES 230 MH .

Pyridine 29.0 L 0.360 mmol was added to a stirred solution of i 10c 83.0 mg 0.362 mmol and triphosgene 193 mg 0.652 mmol in DCM 1.80 mL at 78 C. and the resulting mixture was allowed to warm to rt. After 12 h the reaction mixture was quenched with satd. aq. NHCl and extracted with EtOAc. The combined organics were washed with brine dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo. Purification of the crude residue by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 0 25 EtOAc hexanes as eluent afforded the title compound i 10d. m z ES 256 MH .

i 10e was prepared following procedures similar to those described for the preparation of i 5c substituting i 10d for i 5b. m z ES 156 MH .

Acetic anhydride 36.2 L 0.384 mmol was added to a stirred solution of i 10c 80.0 mg 0.349 mmol and triethylamine 68.0 L 0.488 mmol in DCM 1.75 mL at rt. After 1 h the reaction mixture was quenched with satd. aq. NHCl and extracted with EtOAc. The combined organics were washed with satd. aq. NaHCOand brine dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound i 11a. m z ES 272 MH .

A stirred solution of i 11a 95.0 mg 0.349 mmol in xylenes 3.50 mL was heated to 120 C. After 12 h the reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound i 11b. m z ES 254 MH .

i 11c was prepared following procedures similar to those described for the preparation of i 5c substituting i 11b for i 5b. m z ES 154 MH .

Following procedures similar to those described for the preparation of intermediate i 11c the following compounds can be prepared.

A stirred solution of tert butyl 3 aminopyrrolidine 1 carboxylate 848 L 5.00 mmol i 12c 711 mg 5.00 mmol and pTSA 95.0 mg 0.500 mmol in toluene was heated to 95 C. After 10 h the reaction mixture was cooled to rt poured into satd. aq. NaHCOand extracted with EtOAc. The combined organics were washed with brine dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound i 12a. m z ES 239 MH . H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.23 s 2H 4.84 m 1H 3.50 3.70 m 4H 2.50 m 1H 2.22 m 1H 1.51 s 9H .

i 12b was prepared following procedures similar to those described for the preparation of i 5c substituting i 12a for i 5b. m z ES 139 MH .

Thionyl chloride 41.4 mL 568 mmol was added to a stirred solution of N formylformic hydrazide 20.0 g 227 mmol in DMF 227 mL at 0 C. and the resulting mixture was allowed to warm to rt. After 72 h the reaction mixture was diluted with water quenched with solid sodium carbonate and extracted with DCM. The combined organics were dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound i 12c. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.77 s 2H 2.93 s 6H .

A solution of 1 tert butyl 3 methylpyrrolidine 1 3 dicarboxylate 1.00 equiv. and hydrazine excess of 50 aq. solution in ethanol 0.2 M final conc. is heated to reflux. After the reaction is deemed complete the reaction mixture is cooled to rt and partially concentrated. The resulting mixture is diluted with EtOAc and the resulting organics are washed with water and brine dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound i 13a.

Phosgene 1.50 equiv. of a 20 toluene solution is added to a solution of i 13a 1.00 equiv. and pyridine 4.00 equiv. in DCM 0.1 M final conc. at 78 C. After the reaction is deemed complete the reaction mixture is quenched with said. aq. NaHCOand extracted with EtOAc. The combined organics are washed with brine dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound i 13b.

i 13c can be prepared following procedures similar to those described for the preparation of i 5c substituting i 13b for i 5b.

Mesyl chloride 106 L 1.37 mmol was added to a stirred solution of tert butyl 3 hydroxymethyl pyrrolidine 1 carboxylate 250 mg 1.242 mmol and triethylamine 225 L 1.62 mmol in DCM at 0 C. After 20 min the reaction mixture was diluted with DCM washed with brine dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound i 14a. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 4.19 m 2H 3.20 3.60 m 3H 3.17 m 1H 3.05 s 3H 2.65 m 1H 2.07 m 1H 1.74 m 1H 1.48 s 9H .

A stirred suspension of i 14a 347 mg 1.24 mmol and sodium azide 322 mg 4.97 mmol in DMSO 6.00 mL was heated to 50 C. overnight. The reaction mixture was cooled to rt poured into water and extracted with EtOAc. The combined organics were washed with brine dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound i 14b. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 3.30 3.65 m 6H 3.08 m 1H 2.45 m 1H 2.04 m 1H 1.65 m 1H 1.49 s 9H .

A stirred suspension of i 14b 105 mg 0.464 mmol and 10 wt. palladium on carbon 49.0 mg 0.046 mmol in methanol 4.50 mL was stirred under hydrogen 1 Atm. at rt for 1 h. The reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc and filtered through a short column of Celite . The Celite column was rinsed with additional portions of EtOAc and the combined organic fractions were dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound i 14c. m z ES 201 MH .

i 14d was prepared following procedures similar to those described for the preparation of i 12a substituting i 14c for tert butyl 3 aminopyrrolidine 1 carboxylate. m z ES 253 MH .

i 14e was prepared following procedures similar to those described for the preparation of i 5c substituting i 14d for i 5b. m z ES 153 MH .

i 15b was prepared from tert butyl 4 aminomethyl piperidine 1 carboxylate in two steps by following procedures described for the preparation of 1 12a substituting tert butyl 4 aminomethyl piperidine 1 carboxylate for tert butyl 3 aminopyrrolidine 1 carboxylate in Step A. The product of this reaction i 15a was subjected to conditions described for the preparation of i 5c substituting i 15a for i 5b. m z ES 167 MH .

3 Bromopyridine 116 L 1.20 mmol was added slowly dropwise to a stirred suspension of n butyllithium 480 L of a 2.5 M hexanes solution 1.20 mmol in THF 1.00 mL at 78 C. After 15 min tert butyl 4 formylpiperidine 1 carboxylate 213 mg 1.00 mmol was added and the resulting mixture was allowed to stir at 78 C. After 1 h the reaction was quenched with 1.0 M HCl poured into satd. aq. NaHCOand extracted with EtOAc. The combined organics were washed with brine dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo. Purification of the crude residue by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 10 100 EtOAc DCM as eluent afforded the title compound i 16a. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.55 m 2H 7.70 d 1H J 8.0 Hz 7.32 dd 1H J 4.9 7.4 Hz 4.49 m 1H 4.15 m 4H 2.65 m 2H 1.83 m 1H 1.79 m 1H 1.46 s 9H 1.31 m 1H .

Acetic anhydride 204 L 2.16 mmol was added to a stirred solution of i 16a 158 mg 0.540 mmol and triethylamine 377 L 2.70 mmol in DCE 2.70 mL . After 6 h the reaction mixture was quenched with 0.5 M HCl and extracted with DCM. The combined organics were washed with satd. aq. NaHCOand brine dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound i 16b. m z ES 335 MH .

A stirred suspension of i 16b 181 mg 0.540 mmol ammonium formate 141 L 2.87 mmol and 10 wt. palladium on carbon 57.0 mg 0.054 mmol in methanol 5.50 mL was stirred at rt for 12 h. The reaction mixture was diluted with methanol and filtered through a short column of Celite . The Celite column was rinsed with additional portions of methanol and the combined organic fractions were concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound i 16c. m z ES 277 MH .

i 16d was prepared following procedures similar to those described for the preparation of i 5c substituting i 16c for i 5b. m z ES 177 MH .

Following procedures similar to those described above for preparing intermediate i 16d the following additional intermediates can be prepared.

Lithium hexamethyldisilazane 5.50 mL of a 1.0 M ether solution 5.50 mmol was added to a solution of tert butyl 3 oxopyrrolidine 1 carboxylate 925 mg 5.00 mmol in THF 15.0 mL at 78 C. After 1 h and then a solution of 2 N N bis trifluoromethylsulfonyl amino 5 chloropyridine 2.16 g 5.50 mmol in THF 10.0 mL was was added dropwise and the resulting mixture was allowed to stir at 78 C. After 2 h the reaction mixture was quenched with satd. aq. NHCl and extracted with EtOAc. The combined organics were washed with water and brine dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo. Purification of the crude residue by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 1 2 EtOAc petroleum ether as eluent afforded the title compound i 17a.

A mixture of i 17a 317 mg 1.00 mmol 3 pyrazole boronic acid 123 mg 1.10 mmol 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II DCM complex 25.0 mg 0.031 mmol and sodium carbonate 2.00 mL of a 2.0 M aq. solution 2.00 mmol in dioxane 6.00 mL was heated to 90 C. After 4 h the reaction mixture was cooled to rt and filtered through a short column of Celite . The Celite column was rinsed with EtOAc and the combined organics were washed with water and brine dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo. Purification of the crude residue by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 0 23 EtOAc hexanes as eluent afforded the title compound i 17b. m z ES 236 MH .

A stirred suspension of i 17b 165 mg 0.700 mmol and 10 wt. palladium on carbon 20.0 mg 0.022 mmol in methanol 20.0 mL was stirred under hydrogen 1 Atm. at rt. After 1.5 h the reaction mixture was diluted with methanol and filtered through a short column of Celite . The Celite column was rinsed with additional portions of methanol and the combined organic fractions were concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound i 17c. m z ES 239 MH .

i 17d was prepared following procedures similar to those described for the preparation of i 5c substituting i 17c for i 5b. m z ES 139 MH .

A mixture of i 10b 200 mg 1.00 mmol sodium azide 195 mg 3.00 mmol and ammonium chloride 109 mg 3.00 mmol in DMF 3.00 mL was heated to 120 C. After 18 h the reaction mixture was cooled to rt and 1.0 M HCl was added to the stirring mixture. After an additional 30 min the reaction mixture was diluted with water and extracted with DCM. The combined organics were washed with brine dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound i 18a. m z ES 186 MH .

Iodomethane 0.600 mmol was added to a stirred solution of i 18a 0.500 mmol and potassium carbonate 0.700 mmol in acetonitrile 5.00 mL and the resulting mixture was heated to reflux. After 3 h the reaction mixture was cooled to rt filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The crude residue was dissolved in DCM and the organics were washed with water and brine dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound i 18b and regioisomer i 18c. m z ES 254 MH .

i 18d and i 18e were prepared following procedures similar to those described for the preparation of i 5c substituting i 18b and i 18c respectively for i 5b. m z ES 154 M1 1 .

Following procedures similar to those described above for preparing intermediates i 18d and i 18e the following additional intermediates can be prepared from i 18a.

HATU 4.56 g 12.0 mmol was added to 1 tert butoxycarbonyl pyrrolidine 3 carboxylic acid 2.15 g 10.0 mmol N O dimethylhydroxylamine hydrochloride 1.17 g 12.0 mmol and triethylamine 30.0 mmol in DCM 50.0 mL and the resulting mixture was allowed to stir at rt. After 12 h the reaction mixture was diluted with DCM and the combined organics were washed with water and brine dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound i 19a. m z ES 259 MH .

Methyl magnesium bromide 750 L of a 3.0 M ether solution 2.25 mmol was added to a stirred solution of i 19a 258 mg 1.00 mmol in THF 2.50 mL at 78 C. and after 1 h the reaction mixture was warmed slowly to 0 C. After 3 h the reaction mixture was quenched with satd. aq. NHCl and the resulting mixture was extracted with EtOAc. The combined organics were washed with water and brine dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo. Purification of the crude residue by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 10 20 EtOAc petroleum ether as eluent afforded the title compound i 19b. m z ES 214 MH .

A stirred solution of i 19b 213 mg 1.00 mmol and N N dimethylformamide dimethylacetal 260 mg 2.00 mmol was heated to 85 C. After 8 h the reaction mixture was cooled to rt and concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound i 19c.

A stirred solution of i 19c 80.0 mg 0.310 mmol and hydroxylamine hydrochloride 22.9 mg 0.330 mmol in methanol 3.00 mL was heated to reflux. After 7 h the reaction mixture was cooled to rt poured into water and extracted with EtOAc. The combined organics were washed with brine dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo. Purification of the crude residue by preparative thin layer chromatography on silica gel 50 EtOAc petroleum ether as eluent afforded the title compound i 19c. m z ES 239 MH .

i 19e was prepared following procedures similar to those described for the preparation of i 5c substituting i 19d for i 5b. m z ES 139 MH .

Chlorotrimethylsilane 1.13 mL 10.6 mmol was added dropwise to a stirred solution of lithium hexamethyldisilylamide 1.20 ml of a 1.0 M THF solution 1.20 mmol in THF 40.0 mL at 78 C. After 5 min a solution of i 19b 213 mg 1.00 mmol in THF 4.00 mL was added dropwise and the resulting mixture was warmed to 0 C. over 30 min at which point N bromosuccinimide 210 mg 1.21 mmol was added. After 30 min the reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo and the residue was dissolved in EtOAc. The organics were washed with water and brine dried magnesium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo. Purification of the crude residue by preparative thin layer chromatography on silica gel 30 EtOAc petroleum ether as eluent afforded the title compound i 20a. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 4.12 s 1H 3.98 s 1H 3.65 3.39 m 4H 2.23 2.10 m 2H 1.48 s 9H .

A mixture of i 20a 60.0 mg 0.210 mmol thioacetamide 31.5 mg 0.420 mmol and sodium bicarbonate 35.8 mg 0.420 mmol in ethanol 1.00 mL were heated in a sealed tube within a microwave reactor at 120 C. for 15 min. The reaction mixture was cooled to rt concentrated in vacuo and the resulting residue was partitioned between EtOAc and water. The layers were separated and the organics were washed with satd. aq. NaHCOand brine dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo. Purification of the crude residue by preparative thin layer chromatography on silica gel 50 EtOAc petroleum ether as eluent afforded the title compound i 20b.

i 20c was prepared following procedures similar to those described for the preparation of i 5c substituting i 20b for i 5b. m z ES 169 MH .

i 5d 3.59 g 24.2 mmol was added to a stirred solution of 4 iodobenzoic acid 6.00 g 24.2 mmol N 3 dimethylaminopropyl N ethylcarbodiimide hydrochloride 5.10 g 26.6 mmol and 1 hydroxybenzotriazole 3.70 g 24.2 mmol in DMF 100 mL . After 12 h the reaction mixture was quenched with said aq. NaHCOand extracted with EtOAc. The organic layer was washed with water and brine dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound i 21a. m z ES 379 MH .

Following procedures similar to those described above for preparing intermediate i 21a the following additional intermediates can be prepared.

A mixture of i 21a 700 mg 1.85 mmol bis pinacolato diboron 493 mg 1.94 mmol 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II DCM complex 151 mg 0.185 mmol and potassium acetate 545 mg 5.55 mmol in DMSO 15.0 mL was heated to 70 C. After 5 h the reaction mixture was cooled to rt diluted with EtOAc and filtered through a short column of Celite . The Celite column was rinsed with EtOAc and the combined organics were washed with brine dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound i 22a. m z ES 379 MH .

Following procedures similar to those described above for preparing intermediate i 22a the following additional intermediates can be prepared.

Benzyl chloroformate 53.6 L 0.375 mmol was added to a stirred solution of i 5d 53.0 mg 0.356 mmol and triethylamine 74.8 L 0.536 mmol in DCM 1.80 mL at rt. After 12 h the reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo and the resulting crude residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 50 100 EtOAc hexane as eluent afforded the title compound i 23a. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.54 d 2H J 5.7 Hz 7.57 d 1H J 7.1 Hz 7.30 7.43 m 6H 5.20 d 2H J 3.4 Hz 3.98 m 1H 3.71 m 1H 3.55 m 1H 3.44 m 2H 2.36 m 1H 2.04 m 1H . m z ES 283 MH .

Enantiomers i 23b and i 23c were separated using preparative normal phase chiral HPLC. A solution of i 23a in MeOH was injected onto a CHIRALCEL OD H available from Chiral Technologies Inc. Exton Pa. semi preparative 250 20 mm HPLC column eluting with 20 MeOH COwith a column temperature of 40 C. at 50 mL min with UV detection at 220 nm . The enantiomers were separated with the faster eluting enantiomer i 23b having a retention time of 11.64 min and the slower eluting enantiomer i 23c having a retention time of 13.32 min. The separated fractions were concentrated to provide the enantiomers i 23b and i 23c.

Palladium on carbon 19.6 mg 10 wt. on activated carbon was added to a solution of i 23b 26.0 mg 0.092 mmol in methanol 1.80 mL and the resulting mixture was hydrogenated balloon pressure for 1.5 h. The reaction mixture was filtered through a pad of Celite and the solid layer was rinsed with EtOAc. The combined filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound i 23d. m z ES 149 MH .

Compound i 23e was prepared following similar procedures to those described above in step C substituting i 23c for i 23b. m z ES 149 MH .

In the Tables in the following Examples compounds having mass spectral data were synthetically prepared.

 1 1 Bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II 77.0 mg 0.106 mmol was added to a solution of i 21a 400 mg 1.06 mmol 3 5 bistrifluorophenylboronic acid 327 mg 1.27 mmol and sodium carbonate 1.06 mL of a 2.0 M aq. solution 2.12 mmol in EtOH toluene 7.50 mL of an 80 20 mixture respectively at rt. The resulting solution was heated to 125 C. in a sealed microwave vial for 12 min. After cooling to rt the reaction mixture was filtered through a short column of Celite eluting with EtOAc. The filtrate was washed with water and brine dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo. The crude residue was purified by preparative reversed phase HPLC on YMC Pack Pro C18 stationary phase CHCN HO as eluent 0.05 TFA as modifier followed by lyophilization of the purified fractions to afford the title compound 1a. m z ES 465 MH .

Enantiomers 1b and 1c were separated using preparative normal phase chiral HPLC. A solution of 1a in MeOH was injected onto a CHIRALCEL OD H available from Chiral Technologies Inc. Exton Pa. semi preparative 250 20 mm HPLC column eluting with 30 PrOH COwith a column temperature of 40 C. at 50 mL min with UV detection at 220 nm . The enantiomers were separated with the faster eluting enantiomer 1b having a retention time of 5.31 min and the slower eluting enantiomer 1c having a retention time of 9.59 min. The separated fractions were concentrated to provide the enantiomers 1b and 1c. For 1c m z ES 465 MH .

 1 1 Bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II 14.7 mg 0.020 mmol was added to a solution of i 22a 38.0 mg 0.100 mmol 2 chloro 5 trifluoromethylpyrimidine 20.2 mg 0.111 mmol and sodium carbonate 100 L of a 2.0 M aqueous solution 0.200 mmol in EtOH toluene 1.00 mL of an 3 1 mixture respectively at rt. The resulting solution was heated to 125 C. in a sealed microwave vial for 15 min. After cooling to rt the reaction mixture was filtered through a short column of Celite eluting with EtOAc. The filtrate was washed with water and brine dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo. The crude residue was purified by preparative reversed phase HPLC on YMC Pack Pro C18 stationary phase CHCN HO as eluent 0.05 TFA as modifier followed by lyophilization of the purified fractions afforded the title compound 2a. m z ES 399 MH .

Following procedures as described above in Examples 1 and 2 the following compounds in Table 2 Table 2A Table 2B and Table 2C can be prepared 

Lithium hydroxide hydrate 65.0 mg 2.72 mmol was added to a stirred solution of i 1b 580 mg 1.36 mmol in dioxane water 7.50 mL of a 2 1 mixture respectively . After the reaction was deemed complete the reaction mixture was quenched with 1.0 M HCl and extracted with EtOAc. The combined organics were washed with brine dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound 3a.

i 5d 179 mg 1.21 mmol was added to a stirred solution of 3a 500 mg 1.21 mmol N 3 dimethylaminopropyl N ethylcarbodiimide hydrochloride 255 mg 1.33 mmol and 1 hydroxybenzotriazole 185 mg 1.21 mmol in DMF 8.00 mL . After 4 h the reaction mixture was quenched with said aq. NaHCOand extracted with EtOAc. The organic layer was washed with water and brine dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo. The resulting crude residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 0 5 methanol EtOAc as eluent to afford the title compound 3b. m z ES 543 MH .

 1 1 Bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II 13.7 mg 0.019 mmol was added to a solution of 3b 51.0 mg 0.094 mmol 3 methoxy 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyridine 24.3 mg 0.103 mmol and sodium carbonate 94.0 L of a 2.0 M aqueous solution 0.188 mmol in EtOH toluene 1.25 mL of an 80 20 mixture respectively at rt. The resulting solution was heated to 125 C. in a sealed microwave vial for 12 min. After cooling to rt the reaction mixture was filtered through a short column of Celite eluting with EtOAc. The filtrate was washed with water and brine dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo. The crude residue was purified by preparative reversed phase HPLC on YMC Pack Pro C18 stationary phase CHCN HO as eluent 0.05 TFA as modifier followed by lyophilization of the purified fractions afforded the title compound 3c. m z ES 572 MH .

Following procedures as described above in Example 3 steps A and B the following compounds in Table 3A and 3B can be prepared 

Following procedures as described above in Example 3 steps A through C the following compounds in Table 3C and 3D can be prepared 

Compound 4a was prepared following procedures similar to those described for the preparation of compound 3a substituting i 1c for i 1b 

Compound 4b was prepared following procedures similar to those described for the preparation of compound 3b substituting 4a for 3a. m z ES 591 MH .

Palladium acetate 8.00 mg 0.036 mmol was added to a solution of 4b 210 mg 0.356 mmol cyclopropylboronic acid 36.7 mg 0.427 mmol tricyclohexylphosphine 20.0 mg 0.071 mmol and potassium phosphate tribasic 227 mg 1.07 mmol in toluene water 3.15 mL of an 20 1 mixture respectively at rt. The resulting solution was heated to 100 C. After approximately 24 h the reaction was cooled to rt diluted with EtOAc and filtered through a short column of Celite eluting with EtOAc. The resulting crude residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 0 1 methanol EtOAc as eluent to afford the title compound 4c. m z ES 505 MH .

Enantiomers 4d and 4e were separated using preparative normal phase chiral HPLC. A solution of 1a in MeOH was injected onto a CHIRALCEL OD H available from Chiral Technologies Inc. Exton Pa. semi preparative 250 20 mm HPLC column eluting with 20 PrOH COwith a column temperature of 40 C. at 50 mL min with UV detection at 220 nm . The enantiomers were separated with the faster eluting enantiomer 4d having a retention time of 8.63 min and the slower eluting enantiomer 4e having a retention time of 9.59 min. The separated fractions were concentrated to provide the enantiomers 4d and 4e. For 4e m z ES 505 MH .

Following procedures as described above in Example 4 the following compounds in Table 4 can be prepared 

2 Iodopropane was added to a stirred solution of i 21Ee 144 mg 0.415 mmol and cesium carbonate 162 mg 0.498 mmol in DMF 2.00 mL and the resulting mixture was heated to 50 C. After 2 h the reaction mixture was cooled to rt and partitioned between EtOAc and water. The organics were washed with water and brine dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound 5a. m z ES 389 MH .

Compound 5b was prepared following procedures similar to those described for the preparation of compound 1a substituting 5a for i 21a. m z ES 523 MH .

Following procedures as described above in Example 5 the following compounds in Table 5 can be prepared 

Copper I cyanide 42.9 mg 0.479 mmol was added to a stirred solution of 4b 200 mg 0.368 mmol in DMSO 4.00 mL and the resulting mixture was heated to 180 C. for 12 h. The reaction mixture was cooled to rt quenched with satd. aq. NHCl and extracted with EtOAc. The combined organics were washed with water and brine dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo. The resulting crude residue was purified by preparative reversed phase HPLC on YMC Pack Pro C18 stationary phase CHCN HO as eluent 0.05 TFA as modifier followed by lyophilization of the purified fractions to afford the title compound 6a. m z ES 490 MH .

Following procedures as described above in Example 6 the following compounds in Table 6 can be prepared 

Compound 7a was prepared following procedures similar to those described for the preparation of compound i 3d scheme i 3 step D substituting 3b for i 3c. m z ES 523 MH .

Compound 7b was prepared following procedures similar to those described for the preparation of compound 3a example 3 step A substituting 7a for i 1b. m z ES 509 MH .

Compound 7c was prepared following procedures similar to those described for the preparation of compound i 21a scheme i 21 step A substituting 7b for 4 iodobenzoic acid. m z ES 580 MH .

Compound 7d was prepared following procedures described by substituting i 1Ad for i 1b in Example 3 step A and substituting the product of that reaction for 3a in Example 3 step B. The amide product of the aforementioned reaction was substituted for 3b in Example 7 step A to afford compound 7d. m z ES 387 MH .

Following procedures as described above in Example 7 the following compounds in Table 7 can be prepared 

7a 50.0 mg in 500 L THF 0.096 mmol was added to a stirred solution of lithium chloride 28.4 mg 0.670 mmol and methylmagnesium bromide 480 L of a 1.4 M 75 25 toluene THF solution 0.670 mmol at 0 C. After 2 h the reaction mixture was quenched with said. aq. NHCl and extracted with EtOAc. The combined organics were washed with brine dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo. The resulting crude residue was purified by preparative reversed phase HPLC on YMC Pack Pro C18 stationary phase CHCN HO as eluent 0.05 TFA as modifier followed by lyophilization of the purified fractions to afford the title compound 8a. m z ES 523 MH .

A solution of 7a 160 mg 0.300 mmol and hydrazine hydrate 286 L 9.18 mmol in ethanol toluene 2.70 mL of an 8 1 mixture respectively was heated to 100 C. in a sealed microwave vial for 10 min An additional aliquot of hydrazine hydrate 200 L 6.42 mmol was added and the resulting mixture was heated to 135 C. in a sealed microwave vial for 15 min. The reaction mixture was cooled to rt and partitioned between EtOAc and water. The combined organics were washed with water and brine dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound 9a. m z ES 523 MH .

Phosgene 284 L of a 1.89 M toluene solution 0.537 mmol was added dropwise to a stirred solution of 9a 140 mg 0.268 mmol in DCM 2.50 mL at 78 C. After 2 h the reaction mixture was quenched with said. aq. NaHCOand extracted with EtOAc. The combined organics were washed with brine dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo. The resulting crude residue was purified by preparative reversed phase HPLC on YMC Pack Pro C18 stationary phase CHCN HO as eluent 0.05 TFA as modifier followed by lyophilization of the purified fractions to afford the title compound 9b. m z ES 549 MH .

A solution of 3b 54.0 mg 0.099 mmol pyrazole 50.7 mg 0.745 mmol salicylaldoxime 19.8 mg 0.145 mmol copper I oxide 16.6 mg 0.116 mmol and cesium carbonate 265 mg 0.812 mmol in acetonitrile 1.00 mL was heated to 120 C. in a sealed microwave vial for a total of 60 min. The reaction mixture was cooled to rt concentrated in vacuo and the resulting crude residue was purified by preparative reversed phase HPLC on YMC Pack Pro C18 stationary phase CHCN HO as eluent 0.05 TFA as modifier followed by lyophilization of the purified fractions to afford the title compound 10a. m z ES 531 MH .

Compound 11a was prepared following procedures similar to those described in Example 1 step A substituting i 1b for i 21a. m z ES 456 MH .

A solution of 11a 240 mg 0.527 mmol in hydrobromic acid 5.00 mL of a 33 wt. acetic acid solution was heated to 60 C. in a sealed tube. After 20 h the reaction mixture was cooled to rt and was added to said. aq. NaHCO. The resulting mixture was extracted with EtOAc and combined organics were concentrated in vacuo to give a crude residue that was purified by preparative reversed phase HPLC on YMC Pack Pro C18 stationary phase CHCN HO as eluent 0.05 TFA as modifier followed by lyophilization of the purified fractions to afford the title compound 11b. m z ES 428 MH .

Compound 11c was prepared following procedures similar to those described in Example 3 step B substituting 11b for 3a and i 23e for i 5d. m z ES 558 MH .

PAFR was derived from membranes from CHO cells over expressing the full length human PAFR. Supernatant from the cell homogenate pellet 3000 g is pelleted 35000 g and the resulting pellet is resuspended in a Tris HCl buffer 50 mM Tris HCl pH 7.4 5 mM MgCl 30 glycerol to afford a parent PAFR stock that is diluted in PAF binding buffer 50 mM HEPES pH 7.0 10 mM MgCl 5 mM CaCl 5 mM D glucose 0.25 fatty acid free BSA to afford a PAFR assay stock 120 g mL prior to each use.

Binding buffer 48 L and competitor compound i.e. the compound to be tested in DMSO 2 L were added to a 96 well plate. Cold PAF C 18 200 nM final concentration was used to determine non specific binding. 25000 cpm of H PAF 25 L of a stock solution in PAF binding buffer was added to all wells and the plates sealed and shaken at rt for 5 min. PAFR assay stock 3 g well was added and the plate was sealed and shaken at rt for 2 h. SPA beads 10 L of a 25 mg mL suspension in binding buffer were added to all wells and the plates were sealed and shaken for 30 min. The plates were centrifuged 1900 rpm for 5 min. allowed to stand for 30 min. and read on a Microbeta TriLux counter.

Specific binding is defined as total binding minus non specific binding. Total binding was the amount of H PAF bound to SPA beads in the absence of competitor non specific binding was H PAF bound in the presence of 30 M Compound A.The ICvalues were obtained by computer analysis of the experimental data.Percent inhibition was calculated as 100 Sample Non specific bound Total bound Non specific bound 100 .

REFERENCES 1. Wheat Germ Agglutinin WGA PVT SPA Scintillation Beads GE Healthcare. 2. Hwang S. B. et al. 1993 7 115 134. 3. Kinetic EBDA Ligand Lowry. A collection of Radioligand Binding Analysis Programs by G. A. MacPherson. Elsevier BIOSOFT.

