---

title: Microfabricated particle focusing device
abstract: A microfabricated particle focusing device comprises an acoustic portion to preconcentrate particles over large spatial dimensions into particle streams and a dielectrophoretic portion for finer particle focusing into single-file columns. The device can be used for high throughput assays for which it is necessary to isolate and investigate small bundles of particles and single particles.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08425749&OS=08425749&RS=08425749
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 08425749
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090609
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 060 143 filed Jun. 10 2008 which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with Government support under contract no. DE AC04 94AL85000 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to microfluidic devices and in particular to a microfabricated device that can be used to focus and sort particles for flow cytometry and other applications.

Many biochemical procedures require isolating cells of a uniform type from a tissue containing a mixture of cell types. Flow cytometry is a technology that can simultaneously measure and then analyze physical characteristics of single particles usually cells as they flow in a fluid stream through a beam of light. For example cell separation is often used to analyze the DNA content of individual cells. In a typical cell separation technique DNA or antibodies coupled to a fluorescent dye are used to label specific cells. is a schematic illustration of a typical flow cytometer wherein the individual cells traveling single file pass through a laser beam and the fluorescence of each cell is measured. For optimal illumination the cells should be positioned in the center of the laser beam and only one cell should move through the laser beam at a given moment. Labeled cells can then be separated from unlabeled cells for example using a vibrating nozzle to form droplets containing single cells. This technique can sort many thousands of cells per second.

However commercial flow cytometers are bulky and expensive precluding their use in field clinics water monitoring agriculture veterinary diagnostics and rapidly deployable biothreat detection. Much of the size and cost of conventional cytometers is dictated by the high speed achieved by cells or beads in a hydrodynamically focused stream. Recently flow cytometry systems based on microfluidics have promised less expensive and portable alternatives to conventional systems. See R. Yang et al. 118 259 2005 and C. Simonnet and A. Groisman 78 5653 2006 . These flow cytometry microsystems take advantage of the ability of micromachining technology to pattern small features and integrate multiple sensing modalities optical electrical mechanical onto a single platform. In addition microfluidics offers the ability to build complex interrogation channels that can focus cells into narrow single file columns for downstream optical interrogation. However underlying issues e.g. cell clumping and adhesion to the channel and appropriate routing of the particles to necessary points in an integrated system remain problematic.

Acoustic force manipulation technologies have matured in the last ten years to enable reliable handling of particles in microsystems. See W. T. Coakley et al. 38 638 2000 J. J. Hawkes and W. T. Coakley 75 213 2001 A. Haake and J. Dual 40 317 2002 N. R. Harris et al. 95 425 2003 and A. Nilsson et al. 4 131 2004 . These long range acoustic forces can span the entire dimensions of large e.g. hundreds of microns fluidic channels. Moreover the acoustic forces can be spatially decoupled to strengthen primary radiation forces in one dimension and reduce those in other directions. Also the acoustic radiation forces that move particles from one position to another act on a different spatial scale from weaker interparticle forces. However there are certain drawbacks to the use of acoustic forces alone to manipulate particles. For instance the fabrication of the acoustic device requires non traditional transducer materials that are difficult to integrate into microsystems. Further acoustic focusing parameters can generally be changed only by changing frequencies to modify the number of standing wave nodes in the channel. Finally coupling acoustic forces to devices is not straightforward and poses microfabrication limitations.

Meanwhile dielectrophoresis DEP has been used for many applications in microsystems during the past few years. The DEP force enables particles to be moved precisely from one location to another using simple metal electrode configurations. Negative DEP has been used to levitate single particles at a particular point in a microsystem and to manipulate small groups of particles. See D. Holmes et al. 152 129 2005 J. H. Nieuwenhuis et al. 5 810 2005 and D. Holmes et al. 21 1621 2006 . In many of these applications the particles are manipulated for downstream analyses such as impedance spectroscopy or chemical lysing. In many ways DEP forces are complementary to acoustic forces. For instance DEP forces are flexible and can be modified simply by changing frequencies or by addressing different sets of electrodes in an array to modify the shape of the DEP focusing.

Recently Wiklund et al. have combined long range ultrasonic standing wave USWs suitable for high throughput manipulation of multi particle aggregates with short range DEP suitable for well controlled and precise handling of individual cells in a microfluidic chip. See M. Wiklund et al. 6 1537 2006 which is incorporated herein by reference. By combining USW and DEP acoustic forces were used to accumulate particles into the multi particle aggregates and DEP forces were used to switch and combine particles between adjacent pressure nodes of the USWs in a microfluidic channel. However Wiklund et al. used an acoustic transducer placed obliquely on a microfluidic chip to achieve lateral focusing of the bioparticles along the length of a microfluidic channel. With oblique coupling the incident acoustic wave was transferred from a primarily vertical direction to a primarily horizontal direction by carefully matching of the transducer angle and the acoustic properties of the layers between the transducer and the horizontal channel resulting in a complicated microsystem design.

Therefore a need remains for a simplified microfabricated particle focusing device that enables the combination of acoustic focusing for large scale particle preconcentration and dielectrophoretic forces for single particle focusing and sorting of the preconcentrated particles.

The present invention is directed to a microfabricated particle focusing device comprising a substrate and an enclosed channel on the front side of the substrate for flow of a particle containing fluid therein the channel comprising an upstream acoustic portion comprising a piezoelectric transducer acoustically coupled to the back side of the substrate for establishing an ultrasonic standing wave field in the fluid having one or more pressure nodes or anti nodes in the fluid flow direction and a downstream dielectrophoretic portion comprising a microelectrode array disposed on the front side of the substrate for establishing one or more electric field gradient minima in the fluid in the fluid flow direction wherein the particles in the particle containing fluid are preconcentrated into one or more streams of particles along the pressure nodes or anti nodes in the upstream acoustic portion when the piezoelectric transducer is energized and the streams are focused into one or more columns of particles in the downstream dielectrophoretic portion when the microelectrode array is energized.

The integration of acoustic forces and dielectrophoresis in the device enables preconcentration of dilute particle suspensions using large scale acoustic forces with subsequent focusing of single particles to precise locations using DEP forces. The vertical and lateral alignment of particles with ultrasonic standing waves in the acoustic portion provides single file columns of beads to be formed in the DEP portion. The device can be used in microfluidic assays such as flow cytometry where low coefficients of variance between similar cells are required for accurate data analysis. The precise alignment of beads in the acoustic focusing portion to evenly populate microparticles within the dielectrophoretic focusing portion is important to increase the throughput of cell analysis. For instance once the particles of interest have been routed to the correct zone they can be analyzed with optical detection in several parallel streams or they can be trapped by changing from negative to positive dielectrophoresis and a second microfluidic network perpendicular to the routing network can be used to deliver chemical treatments of interest. The device provides a low cost portable platform for performing sophisticated bead based or cellular assays.

The present invention uses acoustic forces to concentrate particles into streams across large dimensions and subsequently uses short range dielectrophoretic forces to focus the particles into one dimensional columns of individual particles. show top view and end view schematic illustrations respectively of a microfabricated particle focusing device of the present invention. The device comprises an enclosed channel formed by a lid sealed to the front side of a substrate . A fluid comprising a uniform suspension of particles enters an inlet of the channel . The channel comprises an upstream acoustic portion and a downstream dielectrophoresis DEP portion . One or more one dimensional columns of single file particles exit the outlet of the channel .

The particles are coarsely focused into one or more broad streams in the acoustic portion before entering the DEP portion of the channel. A piezoelectric transducer is acoustically coupled to the back side of the substrate under the acoustic portion of the channel . Particles are exposed to an ultrasonic standing wave USW field induced by the piezoelectric transducer in the fluid flow. With the transducer placed directly underneath the channel the primary coupling occurs straight through a film stack to the fluid in the channel. The acoustic forces will penetrate the full cross section X Z plane of the fluidic channel for maximum particle preconcentration and coarse focusing. The channel preferably has a rectangular cross section as shown . The channel preferably has a uniform height and width with smooth and straight sidewalls to maintain a uniform wave field in the acoustic portion of the channel. The piezoelectric transducer can be energized by a radio frequency voltage source. The frequency can be tuned to establish an USW in the channel. For example the acoustic frequency can be tuned to match one half of the wavelength of the channel width to provide a single pressure node in the channel and causing the particles to be focused into a single stream in the fluid flow direction Y. Alternatively the transducer can be tuned to match the first harmonic resonance mode 2 2 creating two pressure nodes in the channel and causing the particles to be focused into two streams as shown . Alternatively the acoustic frequency can be tuned to provide a plurality of pressure nodes in the channel and therefore a plurality of particle streams.

In the DEP portion of the channel comprises a microelectrode array disposed on the front side of the substrate that can be used for DEP manipulation of particles . The electrode array can comprise interdigitated electrodes of opposing comb shaped electrodes each having a fingerlike periodic pattern of electrode fingers interdigitated with the electrode fingers of the opposing comb shaped electrode as shown . The electrode fingers can be oriented parallel to the fluid flow and comprise a finger pattern such that the DEP forces focus the streams from the acoustic portion into corresponding narrow single file columns of particles parallel to the flow direction Y in the DEP portion. Alternative DEP electrode arranges can also be used. The electrodes can be formed of any suitable conductive material. The particle containing fluid is in electromagnetic contact with the electrode fingers i.e. the electric field generated by the interdigitated electrodes penetrates into the fluid . For example the fluid can be in direct fluidic contact with the microelectrodes as shown or the fluidic channel can be separated from the microelectrodes by an insulating layer. The opposing electrodes can be activated by different applied AC biases to generate the spatially non uniform electric field in the fluid above the electrodes. The DEP forces will largely be confined to the bottom portion of the channel near the electrodes and can be used for fine particle focusing. Narrow single file columns of particles emerge at the outlet of the channel .

The microfluidic particle focusing device can be used to provide a microfluidic flow cytometer for example. The interdigitated microelectrodes confine particles laterally into single file columns and levitate the particles to repeatable heights in the channel. This levitation places all particles within the same focusing plane for detection optics and keeps particles at the same velocity under pressure driven flow. Finally the horizontal confinement into narrow parallel columns in the present device keeps particles within the same streamlines and away from channel walls which also simplifies integration with optical detection techniques.

Ultrasonic standing wave fields can be used to separate particles suspended in a fluid. The acoustic radiation force will drive particles towards either the pressure nodes or the anti nodes in the field depending on the density and compressibility of the particles and the fluid. The steady state acoustic force in a standing wave field is a result of the non linear effect to the time averaged acoustic radiation pressure around the particle. If only vertical forces are considered the time averaged acoustic force F on a spherical particle suspended in a liquid is given by 

In the device of the present invention a standing wave can be created between the piezoelectric transducer in the bottom of the channel and the opposing reflecting top lid. If the acoustic frequency is tuned to match one half of the wavelength of the channel width a pressure nodal plane is established along the middle of the channel and a pressure anti nodal plane along each channel wall. If the density and the compressibility of the particles are higher than the liquid the particles will move toward the nodal plane while flowing through the channel. The entering uniformly distributed particles are driven vertically toward the pressure nodal plane at the midplane of the channel. The particles are also centered laterally in the channel due to a lateral radiation force resulting from inhomogeneities in the pressure distribution in the nominally nodal pressure plane thereby causing them to aggregate near the center of the channel. The source of such lateral pressure variations in essentially planar designs can be attributed to a number of factors for example structural modes enclosure modes and near field effects and give rise to the formation of striations or more complex patterns which are commonly observed in acoustic devices. Anisotropy and inhomogeneity of the transducer can also give rise to such variations. Strong lateral forces due to enclosure modes i.e. two or three dimensional ultrasonic standing waves have been exploited to separate particles. See A. Haake and J. Dual 42 75 2004 R. J. Townsend et al. 44 e467 2006 T. Lilliehorn et al. 43 293 2005 and Petersson et al. 77 1216 2005 .

Dielectrophoresis is more suitable for localized three dimensional manipulation of individual particles. The dielectrophoretic force on a spherical particle of radius r can be described by 2 3 where is the permittivity of the medium E is the electric field and K is the Claussius Mossoti factor given by 

The Clausius Mossotti factor is frequency dependent and thus the DEP force will also be frequency dependent. The Maxwell Wagner frequency f is the critical frequency at which the particle media system will transition from being dominated by the conductivities of the system to being dominated by the permittivities. See S. Tsukuhara and H. Watarai 150 59 2003 . The Maxwell Wagner frequency is given by

The microfabricated particle focusing device can be fabricated by techniques generally known to the IC manufacturing and MEMS industries. To investigate the operation of the present invention experimental devices were fabricated using glass or Si substrates. Standard contact photolithography was used to create the inverse pattern of an interdigitated microelectrode array on a borosilicate glass wafer. Titanium 10 nm thickness and gold 100 nm thickness were evaporated onto the substrate and the resist was removed in a liftoff method using acetone and sonication. Once patterned the glass slide or Si wafer was diced into 2 cm 1 cm chips. Each chip consisted of four sets of interdigitated electrodes. The microelectrodes were bi pronged with each leg and space set to 5 m each. Each set of microelectrodes were connected together through a large bus that connected to a bonding pad.

After electrode fabrication a glass microchannel lid was bonded to the top of the dielectrophoretic chip either by stamping a thin layer of PDMS to the chip when a glass substrate was used or through anodic bonding when a Si substrate was used . The resulting microchannels on each chip were 10 mm long 750 m wide 250 m high. The 250 m height of the channel was selected to support a half wavelength resonance at 3 MHz and the width was selected to support a 3 2 resonance a harmonic of the half wavelength resonance at 3 MHz. Fluidic interconnects were attached to the chip. For acoustic excitation a lead zirconate titanate PZT transducer BM400 composition was bonded to the back side of the chip using cyanoacrylate glue. The BM400 composition material has similar characteristics to PZT4 and can achieve high drive amplitudes.

A 1 D transmission line model was developed to understand the coupling of acoustic energy along the height of the channel. The model was based on previous work to analyze lossy multilayered transducers. See J. L. Dion 40 577 1993 and J. L. Dion et al. 44 1120 1997 . The model used closed form expressions for acoustic velocities and electric impedances of the piezoelectric element valid in any one dimensional system with losses. In the model there was no need for a non intuitive negative capacitance Cas used in the Mason equivalent circuit models for thickness vibrating piezoelectric elements. See W. P. Mason Physical Acoustics. New York Academic Press ch. 5 1964 and R. Krimholtz et al. 6 398 1970 . The approach is valid for thickness or shear vibrating elements.

The combined impedance Z for an arbitrary number of layers can be computed using the impedance addition rule derived from transmission line theory. The complex transformed impedance at distance d L x by a layer is given by 

Ten micron diameter polystyrene microparticles were used for focusing experiments. A syringe pump was used to deliver particles concentration of 10particles mL to the microchannel at a rate of 10 L min. The PZT transducer and the DEP electrodes were driven with separate function generators with a sinusoidal signal. The device was placed under an upright microscope and video photographs were captured. Probe tips were used to provide contact to the DEP electrodes and alligator clip connectors were connected to wires soldered to two faces of the PZT transducer for acoustic manipulation. Acoustic forces were coupled into the microfluidic channel from the substrate to create standing waves along the height and along the width of the channel. Once actuated the average stream widths and average levitation heights for beads were measured by calibration of the microscope focus dial.

The acoustic portion of the device was designed for 2 operation vertically and 3 2 laterally. The fundamental half wavelength frequency for the experimental device occurred at approximately 3.1 MHz in the vertical direction and 0.95 MHz in the lateral direction. Table 1 summarizes the particle manipulation characteristics in both the acoustic and dielectrophoretic focusing portions i.e. zones of the channel. The average stream width and levitation height in both the acoustic and dielectrophoretic portions was measured to confirm that the device was operating as designed. In particular flow cytometry requires very tightly focused channels of particles.

The device can be used in either a continuous flow through mode with nDEP or in a static interrogation mode by the trapping of beads to the substrate with pDEP. Once the particles enter the dielectrophoretic focusing portion they can continue to flow through the device or can be trapped along the fingers of the interdigitated electrode array by changing from an nDEP to a pDEP force. With this device beads could be trapped at 4 5 kHz i.e. below the Maxwell Wagner frequency against the flow and held in place by pDEP. The trap allowed the particles to be pulled directly down to the substrate without disturbing the pearl chain alignment in the column. Once the particle is trapped it can then be interrogated optically or addressed chemically. The beads can then be released by reversing from pDEP to nDEP. Therefore when the frequency of operation was switched back to nDEP at 1 MHz with this device the beads were released from the substrate and allowed to resume flow to the channel outlet. Interrogation of functionalized beads is important for applications such as biomarker protein detection involved in various physiological and pathological processes.

When the device was operated at 3 MHz three streams of beads were created in the acoustic portion to feed three different sections of the DEP substrate with minimal clumping due to uneven distributions in one section of the substrate. Pearl chains of beads averaged 12 15 beads and spanned the width of 7 8 fingers of the interdigitated electrodes. Within the preconcentration acoustic portion only a small fraction 

As shown in Table 1 the device was operated at acoustic frequencies from 1 to 10 MHz to better understand the behavior of the device at higher numbers of streams and any potential deleterious effects when the device was operated off resonance in the vertical dimension. In the off resonance mode of operation approximately 5 of the beads were lost due to sticking on the surface especially during runs that lasted more than 5 minutes. At lower stream numbers only one section of the DEP substrate was fed by beads the other areas were empty resulting in clumps of beads and inefficient focusing into single file lines as shown in Table 1. Higher numbers of lateral striations e.g. 7 10 streams increased the uniformity of the single file lines and allowed the DEP portion of the substrate to be evenly distributed with pearl chains.

These results also show that the device can be used effectively both on and off resonance vertically. While performance is better when the device is operated on resonance vertically and laterally only a modest increase 5 in loss of microparticles due to sticking to channel surfaces was observed when the device was operated off resonance vertically. Off resonance operation increases the potential throughput of the device by allowing more lateral streams feeding a much larger DEP substrate. Further increasing the number of acoustically focused streams increases the focusing fidelity of the DEP substrate.

When operating the device without the acoustic portion a much greater variability in pearl chain widths was observed in the DEP portion as shown in Table 2. In this experiment the particles were delivered to the DEP portion with the acoustic transducer turned off. Beads were unevenly distributed throughout the substrate with some areas being inundated with beads and others receiving very few. In the parts of the substrate that received many beads particle clumping was also a problem.

The present invention has been described as a microfabricated particle focusing device. It will be understood that the above description is merely illustrative of the applications of the principles of the present invention the scope of which is to be determined by the claims viewed in light of the specification. Other variants and modifications of the invention will be apparent to those of skill in the art.

