---

title: Command and control of autonomous surface vehicle
abstract: An operating system is provided for controlling an unmanned vehicle. The system includes a stratified plurality of instruction layers, a behavior axiom block and a set of operation parameters. The instruction layers are substantially arranged in descending priority order. Each layer provides an information signal to either an adjacent descending layer or an operation device on board the unmanned vehicle. The behavior axiom block provides an independent protocol signal to a first instruction layer in said stratified plurality. The operation parameters provide an environmental condition that neighbors the unmanned vehicle to a second instruction layer. Preferably, the behavior axiom block includes prioritization adjustment to an instruction layer for overriding the information signal from an adjacently ascendant layer, such as by an interrupt signal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08150621&OS=08150621&RS=08150621
owner: The United States of America as represeneted by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08150621
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090407
---
The invention described was made in the performance of official duties by one or more employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the invention herein may be manufactured used or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The invention relates generally to flexible command and control of an autonomous surface vehicle. In particular the invention provides a stratified structure of instructions to achieve a mission objective operating within constraint protocols.

Conventional operational methods employ remote control signal devices provided by a human that views sensor information from the unmanned vehicle or from other sources to send steering commands to the vehicle. Some limited autonomy is available for situations without obstacles traffic or enemy in which waypoints are issued to the surface vehicle follow with a simple autopilot on board. The vehicle uses Global Positioning System or a similar system to hold the boat on bearing to the next waypoint. Commercial boat autopilots are available for this purpose for commercial and recreational boating applications to reduce human workload. For these systems human monitoring remains necessary in the event of traffic or obstacles. For such situations or when the weather obscures visibility or interferes with stability direct human control of the vehicle steering is required to ensure operational safety and achievement of the vehicle s mission.

An example of where direct human intervention is required is the case of steering relative to an oncoming wave to prevent rollover. Operations such as docking or rendezvous with a command platform all require direct human control of the ship steering. In a situation where the USV supports combat operations there can be traffic present including both friendly and hostile which require human intervention to direct the activities of the vehicle by remote control. In addition complex missions such as intercepting a potentially hostile incoming boat would require direct human control via a remote link.

Some autonomy is available in missile and aircraft autopilot and missile guidance systems. Aircraft and missile autopilots deal with narrowly defined missions such as stabilization of the aircraft or execution of a commanded turn to a new heading. These automated functions are fairly limited in nature and are designed to work in a rather scripted process.

The greatest amount of autonomy in aircraft systems occurs in the microburst recovery systems for commercial aircraft. Because the limited time required to respond stresses the human reaction time consensus is developing of the utility to provide limited autonomy to the system to fly the vehicle out of the microburst. This represents a very scripted and optimized flight procedure. Trajectory guidance for an autonomous land attack cruise missile follows a scripted mission without significant flexibility. This limits autonomous operation to a fire and forget weapon such as the Tomahawk cruise missile rather than an unscripted reconnaissance platform such as the Global Hawk aircraft that requires real time flexibility.

Current methods for controlling an unmanned surface vehicle require increased manning requirements for the command platform operating that surface vehicle. Additionally the current approach to remote control operation of unmanned vessels exhibits decreased functionality during certain periods because the human operators degrade by fatigue or lack of trained personnel. There are also limitations on the mission because of the limited human capabilities. Advanced automatic systems are anticipated be able to pilot the ship in inclement weather conditions better than human operated systems. This arises from the ability to design the system to use sensor input rather than organic feedback to a human operator such as Doppler measurement of water speed and from the faster response time of automated systems.

Conventional unmanned vehicle control systems yield disadvantages addressed by various exemplary embodiments of the present invention. In particular various exemplary embodiments provide an architecture for the Command and Control C of an autonomous unmanned ship or surface vehicle with a minimum of human intervention. The Stratified Horizon Control herein provides an architecture for creating an algorithm that interprets the highest level of commander s orders in a linguistic format as might be given to a human operating an equivalent vehicle and autonomously interprets the commanders orders and develops the various levels of controls to ultimately steer and control the speed of the surface vehicle to achieve its commanded mission. This algorithm provides safe reliable and effective execution of the commander s intent without increased manning requirements.

Various exemplary embodiments provide an operating system for controlling an unmanned vehicle. The system includes a stratified plurality of instruction layers a behavior axiom block and a set of operation parameters. The instruction layers are substantially arranged in descending priority order. Each layer provides an information signal to either an adjacent descending layer or an operation device on board the unmanned vehicle.

The behavior axiom block provides an independent protocol signal to a first instruction layer in said stratified plurality. The operation parameters provide an environmental condition that neighbors the unmanned vehicle to a second instruction layer. In various exemplary embodiments the behavior axiom block includes prioritization adjustment to an instruction layer for overriding the information signal from an adjacently ascendant layer such as by an interrupt signal.

In the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments may be utilized and logical mechanical and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.

The plan includes a series of levels for Stratified Horizon Control SHC . The levels from strategic and long term for decision to specific and immediate begin with commander s intent interpretation layer that yields global quantitative goals and constraints . Next mission design that yields horizons for lower controls path constraints and horizon goals and environmental assessment at the same level of detail as the mission design but subject to information received from the operating procedures . The assessment yields navigation constraints .

Next route planning layer that yields optimized navigation parameters . Next navigation layer that yields heading rate or heading schedule commands to achieve goal objectives and avoid collisions. Finally control layer that provides steering and throttle commands . Time constraints for integrated decisions and command implementation range from interpretation involving hundreds of minutes or several hours mission design involving tens of minutes route planning involving minutes and navigation involving tens of seconds down to control commands that involve milliseconds to seconds.

The unmanned surface vehicles must operate relative to a parent command vessel and with other peer surface vehicles. shows a block diagram for implementing the SHC relative to multi vehicle operation within the operating procedures for an unmanned surface vehicle USV . Individual USV Carchitecture includes vehicle management and sensors that communicate with the IOP which interface with the SHC . GOP communicate with the parent or mother combat system MCS that hosts the launch platform and also associates with the SHC . Off Board Assets Sensor Information and Sensing Requests supply information or instructions to the MCS . Optimal Sensor Allocation provides supplemental information to the architecture .

Commands provided by the human operator and in conjunction with the SHC operate to provide group controls to the vehicle management . Other communications include sensing requests from the IOP to the suite returning with sensor measurements such as presence of local entities with tracks and classification wave measurements wind speed etc. Information exchanges between the operating procedures and the vehicle management . Information also exchanges between the operating procedures to the SHC . Sensing requests can issue from the vehicle management to the suite . The vehicle management provides status updates to the SHC which can pass requests to the suite and throttle steering commands to the platform .

The Stratified Horizon Control SHC represents an algorithm that divides the control processes from interpretation of the commander s intention through the actual commands to the steering and speed control into a set of instruction strata. The highest stratum involves the broadest decision making and interpretation and is called the commander s intent interpretation layer . This layer deals with the more strategic aspects of the command and control mission

The interpretation of the commander s intent involves the definition of the mission constraints and acceptable levels of risk. The decision making at this level has the longest time horizon for consideration. Having to deal with entire missions decision making may extend to the hundreds of minutes. The lowest level of the SHC provides the control outputs to the actuators on the USV platform . Typically these are concerned with the desired rudder angle and the desired throttle control though alternate actuator arrangements may be accommodated in this approach. This lowest level of control deals with such inputs as heading or heading angle rate to produce the desired actuator command. The time horizon on this level is very short and deals with decisions affecting hundreds of milliseconds into the future. This architecture allows the implementation of existing off the shelf components such as the use of existing autopilots for the lowest level.

Between this uppermost layer and the lowest the stratification of the control may assume many forms. Descending through these layers of the exemplary architecture illustrated in the planning becomes more detailed and quantitative and with shorter time horizons. The entire system is designed for adaptability and thus the horizons for each layer can be determined by the SHC process. The level for setting the horizons can typically be performed in the mission design layer .

The functions of each of these layers are discussed in detail in the following sections. These layers have set horizons that are updated at periodically at an interval much less than their above horizons typically one tenth of the immediately above horizon . At each update the solution can be completely redesigned with the current states as the initial conditions. Thus the mission designed at the start of a mission may change considerably by the time of mission completion. Given sufficient environmental information and no surprises the SHC provides a stable mission definition but the redefinition can be established for adaptability upon receipt of new information.

Another important aspect of the SHC is the Behavior Axioms Block BAB which exists outside of the stratified layer and is updated at a very high rate typically on the order of the control layer . That horizon can be relatively brief and confront issues where any of the BAB may be violated. The behavior axioms deal with the survivability of the vessel and the safety of friendly and non combatant ships and individuals. The BAB conducts its own calculations over its horizon to determine whether any behavior axioms may be violated.

The BAB has the ability to interrupt any layer currently in process by issuances of interrupt message. This interrupt message instills an adrenaline factor in each control factor which can affect its actions. This factor orients the control layer away from mission success to satisfying the BAB which also dictates when the axioms are not in danger of violation and allow resumption of normal operations for the SHC . At this point the commander s intent interpretation layer reinitializes the SHC again from the current vehicle states and environmental conditions.

The commander s intent interpretation level is designed to take linguistic based commands and translates these into mission design parameters. The interpretation of the Commander s Intent involves the definition of the mission constraints and acceptable levels of risk. The decision making at this level has the longest time horizon for consideration. Having to analyze entire missions the interpretation level may produce decisions out to the hundreds of minutes. The outputs of this level include the definition of the type of mission such as a patrol of specified region in use of particular sensor suite. Once the type of mission is specified then the mission parameters can be defined.

For example for a patrol using a specific sensor suite this level would provide the boundaries of the region spacing and interlacing of vehicle sweeps completion time for the patrol decision node and reporting points and the acceptable mission risk of the mission. This last parameter deals with the level of urgency associated with the mission and is important for regulating the adrenaline factor used in the lower levels. This factor is used to trade off risk for probability of mission success in the mission design parameters and for the threshold for when the BAB overrules the planned mission design . An example of such a trade off might be a very high priority mission that follows a path that hits waves at an approach angle that would be avoided in a routine mission. This level depends on the use of embedded knowledge of naval operations to interpret the linguistic commands from the commander. This level employs expert systems to allow access to the level of knowledge that an expert user of the particular boat and experienced sailor might possess of boat and navy operations.

The waypoints between which the platform operates can be described by nodal geometry. shows a plan view diagram of a navigation grid . Nodes are defined by grid position and approach direction and can be arranged in a rectangular pattern separated by a cell width having length d in orthogonal directions. The platform can be directed to follow a directed cycle forming an octagonal ring of inward arcs. Outgoing arcs correspond to approach direction 45 directed away from the cycle .

The mission design layer receives the output of the commander s intent interpretation layer and converts these into quantified mission parameters. The outputs of this layer may typically include contemporary and estimates of future values horizons time values for each of the layers and the desired position and heading of the vessel platform at the next horizon . Planning in this layer occurs at length and time scales where the dynamics of the vessel are negligible. For the analysis at this level the platform launch platform may be considered to turn instantaneously and paths consist of straight line segments between nodes . In this layer the nodes are used to specify the path or .

The selection of nodes includes the avoidance of known large obstacles such as coasts or reefs. Smaller obstacles such as an isolated ship or rock are not considered at this level. The discrimination between which obstacles are included at this level of analysis is made based on maximum dimension of the object. For this determination groups of closely spaced objects can be combined into a single larger object through clustering algorithms . Consequently the composite larger object or regions are avoided by mission design .

The spacing of nodes that demarcate setpoints on the horizons that are applied to the lower levels and are determined by the type of mission interpreted from the commander s intent interpretation level . As an example if the commanding officer desires to leave port transit the Atlantic and then dock at another port the nodes can be spaced close together in the port regions and relatively far apart in the open ocean areas. Correspondingly the horizons applied to the deeper layers would be smaller in the ports and larger in the open ocean areas. for the mission design layer shows the development of horizons for the route planning layer and the selection of node points by the mission design layer . The extent of horizon of the route planning layer represents the horizon for the mission design layer which the latter self selects based on the goal.

The mission design layer develops the horizons for the lower levels and develops the local world view for the GOP and IOP . The interrelationship of these layers is shown in for interactions of the SHC . The purpose of the route planning layer RPL is to compute the nominal parameters used in a navigation algorithm as in the navigation layer . The selection of these parameters is based on optimizing a selected performance function over the horizon of the RPL . This timeframe elapses typically on the order of tens of seconds. The specific horizon of the RPL in operation is selected by the mission design layer . The RPL represents a simulation based algorithm that uses a simulation of the vehicle to determine the navigation algorithm parameters. The navigation parameters are based on minimizing the time to the desired position and heading at the current RPL horizon. The desired position and heading on the RPL horizon are provided by the mission design layer .

Control law solutions for terminal conditions in vector form include all dimensions such as throttle acceleration to be used for target intercept i.e. offset rendezvous . The optimal control u can be expressed as 

An optimization or rule based set algorithm can be used to determine the parameters that minimize the time to the goal point maintains minimal separation i.e. the CPA around known obstacles and satisfies any heading constraints along the path. Such constraints represent known heading angle constraints due to wave motion in certain regions. One goal includes avoiding the preplan of the route to improve safe maneuver. for route planning shows the concept for the RPL .

The navigation layer is responsible for generating commands for the heading heading rate or acceleration to the control layer . The navigation layer uses the navigation algorithm parameters selected by the RPL in computing these heading rates or heading schedule. shows the overview of the procedure for the navigation layer including an initial bearing phase from which the vehicle turns to a bearing and holds until reaching position at a designated time tfrom the RPL .

Composite navigation provides for obstacle avoidance and path shaping using the parameters from the RPL . Depending on the implementation on the USV platform the navigation law can be cast as a commanded acceleration as shown 

The commanded accelerations are developed in the reference frame defined by the NEDL frame . The three terms provide three different aspects of the guidance law are blended by a set of three gains contained in the three gain tensors tilde over K tilde over K tilde over K . These gain tensors are formed by tilde over K K I where I is the identity tensor and Kis a blending weighting scalar for each component of the composite law. The weightings are set by the RPL . For generality the gain may be scheduled in time t such that 5 where time varying function is provides rate of gain change.

The three elements of the composite guidance include which is a goal and orientation control algorithm designed to reach goal points on the local horizon is the acceleration required to follow the bearing and is the acceleration to avoid objects and environmental conditions such as the need to approach large waves at a specified angle. The specifics of how these commanded accelerations are computed may be developed in many different substations. The latter two commands are naturally developed in the P frame which has its x axis aligned with the current velocity vector and its z axis aligned with the local gravity vector. Tis the transformation from the P frame to the NEDL frame.

Typically the values for bearing guidance and the avoidance guidance would be terminated at some point in the local horizon. For instance the bearing guidance computation can be set to zero in response to the specified time of the RPL to follow the bearing has been exceeded. Similarly the acceleration to avoid objects or environmental conditions would reach a zero value once the time to go to the obstacle or environmental conditions has gone negative. This implies that the object is behind the USV platform in terms of the current direction of travel.

The guidance or navigation layer generates commands for the heading heading rate and acceleration to the control layer . Guidance parameters are obtained from the latest route planning update and measurements from the IMU and GPS are processed using guidance equations to compute acceleration or heading rate. The navigation law can be expressed as a heading rate dot over for in flight composite guidance 

Obstacles K L and M lie disposed between the traveling platform and the goal . No avoidance is required for the K obstacle. However the L obstacle can be circumvented by dash line divert directions to port and the M obstacle can be circumvented by dash line divert direction to starboard. Upon passing the M obstacle through the divert maneuver a goal angle directs the platform to the goal . A plot illustrates the relation between the abscissa as the closest point of approach and the ordinate as the miss metric. Diversion to expand approach distance around an obstacle is maintained to equal the miss metric reaches fifty feet in this example.

The controller provides an exemplary implementation of the control layer that includes proportional P integral I and differential D functions receiving through a second sum operator error correction from feedback negative from the output and commanded heading rate positive from the signaler as the setpoint. Outputs from the functions are summed in a third sum operator as boat true dynamics output such as rudder command in degrees. The summation output represents achieved yaw yaw rate and heading rate for the boat. This output is returned as feedback through a third gate to the first sum operator as well as to the second sum operator .

Various exemplary embodiments provide the USV platform with the ability to autonomously conduct a broad spectrum of missions equivalent to those which a commander might expect of a human operated surface vehicle. The ability to do this autonomously provides the commander with an expanded combat and operations capabilities without the attendant growth in manpower on the ship. The first generation of USV requires an additional complement of five to ten people to conduct operations of the platform .

Various exemplary embodiments decrease manning requirements and augment combat and operational capability for the command platform mother ship operating a USV platform increased continuous functionality because human intervention becomes optional such that and the systems do not degrade by fatigue from human operation and increased functionality because the automatic system are able to perform missions that humans cannot accomplish.

Various exemplary embodiments provide the use of layers of automation with each layer dealing with the total problem at different levels of abstraction and time horizon. This process enables the mimicry of the human capability for strategic decision making as compared to the tactical decision making. By parsing out lower level considerations for the higher strategic levels the amount of computational time is greatly reduced. This approach thereby reduces complexity of the software. The minimum number of logic paths operating at each layer reduces testing time necessary to identify and correct the logic errors for ensuring safe and efficient operation as compared to branch and tree approaches.

Conventional alternatives of exemplary embodiments include high personal attention for continued use of manned remote control operations of the USV platform . This has the attendant problems of increased manning requirements on the command platform lower performance caused by operator fatigue and lower total performance from communication lags due to fleet bandwidth limitations and human limitations. An alternate approach to automation is to use the branch tree method as seen in applications such as chess programs. This approach is very computational intensive despite the game playing characteristics thus necessitating only a very limited need for situational awareness as compared to real world operations.

While certain features of the embodiments of the invention have been illustrated as described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

