---

title: CD37 immunotherapeutic and combination with bifunctional chemotherapeutic thereof
abstract: The present disclosure provides a humanized anti-CD37 small modular immunopharmaceutical (SMIP) molecule, as well as synergistic combination therapies of CD37-specific binding molecules (such as anti-CD37 SMIP proteins or antibodies) with bifunctional chemotherapeutics (such as bendamustine) that can be administered concurrently or sequentially, for use in treating or preventing B-cell related autoimmune, inflammatory, or hyperproliferative diseases.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09101609&OS=09101609&RS=09101609
owner: EMERGENT PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT SEATTLE, LLC
number: 09101609
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090413
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 190 067 filed Apr. 11 2008 where this provisional application is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The Sequence Listing associated with this application is provided in text format in lieu of a paper copy and is hereby incorporated by reference into the specification. The name of the text file containing the Sequence Listing is SEQUENCE LISTING.txt. The text file is 295 KB was created on Feb. 1 2012 and is submitted electronically via EFS Web.

The present disclosure generally provides compositions and methods for treating B cell disorders and more specifically a humanized anti CD37 small modular immunopharmaceutical SMIP molecule as well as synergistic combination therapies of CD37 specific binding molecules with bifunctional chemotherapeutics for use in treating or preventing B cell related autoimmune inflammatory or hyperproliferative diseases.

The human immune system generally protects the body from invading foreign substances and pathogens. One component of the immune system is B lymphocytes also referred to as B cells which produce antibodies that protect the body by binding to and in some cases mediating destruction of a foreign substance or pathogen. In some instances however the immune system functions can go awry and disease results. For example there are numerous cancers autoimmune diseases and inflammatory diseases that involve uncontrolled proliferation of B cells.

B cells can be identified by molecules on their cell surface such as CD37. CD37 is a heavily glycosylated 40 52 kDa protein that belongs to the tetraspanin transmembrane family of cell surface antigens which is highly expressed on normal antibody producing B cells but not on pre B cells or plasma cells. In addition to normal B cells almost all malignancies of B cell origin are positive for CD37 expression including chronic lymphocytic leukemia CLL non Hodgkins lymphoma NHL and hairy cell leukemia Moore et al. J. Pathol. 152 13 1987 Merson and Brochier Immunol. Lett. 19 269 1988 and Faure et al. Am. J. Dermatopathol. 12 122 1990 .

A few CD37 specific immunotherapies have been developed. An IgG1 murine monoclonal antibody specific for CD37 MB 1 was labeled with I and tested in a clinical trial in the treatment of NHL see Press et al. J. Clin. Oncol. 7 1027 1989 Bernstein et al. Cancer Res. Suppl. 50 1017 1990 Press et al. Front. Radiat. Ther. Oncol. 24 204 1990 Press et al. Adv. Exp. Med. Biol. 303 91 1991 and Brown et al. Nucl. Med. Biol. 24 657 1997 . The MB 1 antibody lacks Fc effector functions such as antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity ADCC and the naked MB 1 antibody did not inhibit tumor growth in an in vivo xenograft model Buchsbaum et al. Cancer Res. 52 6476 1992 . In addition an immunoconjugate having adriamycin linked to G28 1 another murine monoclonal anti CD37 was administered to mice and shown to be internalized with adriamycin being released intracellularly see Braslawsky et al. Cancer Immunol. Immunother. 33 367 1991 . An engineered fusion protein termed a small modular immunopharmaceutical SMIP product directed to CD37 is currently being tested in humans see e.g. US Patent Application Publications 2003 0133939 and 2007 0059306 .

Although there has been extensive research carried out on antibody based therapies there remains a need in the art for alternative or improved compositions and methods for treating B cell associated disorders or diseases.

In one aspect the present disclosure provides humanized CD37 specific binding molecules and a method for reducing B cells or treating a disease associated with aberrant B cell activity comprising administering to a subject in need thereof an effective amount of a humanized CD37 specific binding molecule provided herein.

In certain embodiments the present disclosure provides a humanized CD37 specific binding molecule comprising from amino terminus to carboxyl terminus i a humanized heavy chain variable region ii a linker as set forth in SEQ ID NO 229 iii a humanized light chain variable region iv an IgG1 hinge v human IgG1 CH2 region and vi human IgG1 CH3 region wherein a the humanized heavy chain variable region comprises from amino terminus to carboxyl terminus a humanized heavy chain FR1 a heavy chain CDR1 as set forth in SEQ ID NO 63 a humanized heavy chain FR2 a heavy chain CDR2 as set forth in SEQ ID NO 65 a humanized heavy chain FR3 a heavy chain CDR3 as set forth in SEQ ID NO 67 68 or 69 and a humanized heavy chain FR4 and b the humanized light chain variable region comprises from amino terminus to carboxyl terminus a humanized light chain FR1 a light chain CDR1 as set forth in SEQ ID NO 61 or 62 a humanized light chain FR2 a light chain CDR2 as set forth in SEQ ID NO 64 a humanized light chain FR3 and a light chain CDR3 as set forth in SEQ ID NO 66 and a humanized light chain FR4.

In certain embodiments of the above humanized CD37 specific binding molecules the humanized heavy chain FR1 comprises SEQ ID NO 144 the humanized heavy chain FR2 comprises SEQ ID NO 151 the heavy chain FR3 comprises SEQ ID NO 158 and the heavy chain FR4 comprises SEQ ID NO 161 or 162.

In certain embodiments of any one of the above humanized CD37 specific binding molecules the humanized light chain FR1 comprises SEQ ID NO 171 the light chain FR2 comprises SEQ ID NO 182 the light chain FR3 comprises SEQ ID NO 195 and the light chain FR4 comprises SEQ ID NO 206.

In a related aspect the present disclosure provides a CD37 specific binding molecule that comprises the amino acid sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO 253.

In certain embodiments the CD37 specific binding molecule consists essentially of the amino acid sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO 253.

In certain embodiments the CD37 specific binding molecule consists of the amino acid sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO 253.

In a related aspect the present disclosure also provides an isolated nucleic acid molecule that comprises a nucleotide sequence encoding a humanized CD37 specific binding molecule provided herein.

In another related aspect the present disclosure provides a vector that comprises an isolated nucleic acid molecule that encodes a humanized CD37 specific binding molecule provided herein.

In another related aspect the present disclosure provides a host cell that comprises the above described vector.

The present disclosure also provides a composition that comprises a humanized CD37 specific binding molecule provided herein and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

In another aspect the present disclosure provides a method for reducing B cells or treating a disease associated with aberrant B cell activity comprising administering to a subject in need thereof an effective amount of a humanized CD37 specific binding molecule provided herein.

In certain embodiments the disease associated with aberrant B cell activity is a B cell lymphoma a B cell leukemia a B cell myeloma a disease characterized by autoantibody production or a disease characterized by inappropriate T cell stimulation associated with a B cell pathway.

In certain embodiments the disease characterized by autoantibody production is idiopathic inflammatory myopathy rheumatoid arthritis myasthenia gravis Grave s disease type I diabetes mellitus multiple sclerosis an autoimmune disease dermatomyositis polymyositis or Waldenstrom s macroglobinemia.

In certain embodiments the disease associated with aberrant B cell activity is chronic lymphocytic leukemia CLL .

In another aspect the present disclosure provides compositions and methods for the combined use of CD37 specific binding molecules and bifunctional chemotherapeutics to reduce B cells or treat a disease associated with aberrant B cell activity. A surprising result of this combination is that these compounds act synergistically which results in an increased B cell reduction.

For example the present disclosure provides a composition that comprises a CD37 specific binding molecule and bendamustine.

In certain embodiments the CD37 specific binding molecule is a CD37 specific antibody or SMIP such as a humanized antibody or humanized SMIP.

In certain embodiments the CD37 specific binding molecule competes with G28 1 mAb in CD37 specific binding.

In certain embodiments the CD37 specific binding molecule is a humanized CD37 specific binding molecule provided herein such as a humanized CD37 specific binding molecule that comprises consists essentially of or consists of the amino acid sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO 253.

In a related aspect the present disclosure provides a method for reducing B cells or treating a disease associated with aberrant B cell activity comprising administering to a subject in need thereof an effective amount of a CD37 specific binding molecule and bendamustine.

In certain embodiments the disease associated with aberrant B cell activity is a B cell lymphoma a B cell leukemia a B cell myeloma a disease characterized by autoantibody production or a disease characterized by inappropriate T cell stimulation associated with a B cell pathway.

In certain further embodiments the disease characterized by autoantibody production is idiopathic inflammatory myopathy rheumatoid arthritis myasthenia gravis Grave s disease type I diabetes mellitus multiple sclerosis an autoimmune disease dermatomyositis polymyositis or Waldenstrom s macroglobinemia.

In certain other embodiments the disease associated with aberrant B cell activity is chronic lymphocytic leukemia CLL .

In certain embodiments the CD37 specific binding molecule and bendamustine are administered concurrently.

In certain other embodiments the CD37 specific binding molecule and bendamustine are administered sequentially.

In certain embodiments the CD37 specific binding molecule is a CD37 specific antibody or SMIP such as a humanized antibody or a humanized SMIP.

In certain embodiments the CD37 specific binding molecule competes with G28 1 mAb in CD37 specific binding.

In certain embodiments the CD37 specific binding molecule is a humanized CD37 specific binding molecule provided herein such as a humanized CD37 specific binding molecule that comprises consists essentially of or consists of the amino acid sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO 253.

In one aspect the present disclosure provides the CD37 specific binding molecule CAS 024 SEQ ID NO 253 which is a humanized version of CAS 006 a small modular immunopharmaceutical SMIP protein having the immunoglobulin variable regions from mouse anti human CD37 monoclonal antibody G28 1 . The CAS 024 SMIP protein is unexpectedly 1 expressed at up to about 25 fold higher levels than other humanized versions of CAS 006 such as CAS 002 CAS 003 see Examples 2 and 5 2 capable of binding CD37 as well as CAS 006 while other humanized versions do not see Examples 4 and 5 and 3 produced as a homogenous population of molecules as compared the heterogenous nature of other humanized versions see Example 3 . Additionally the instant disclosure provides the CD37 specific binding molecule CAS 024 SEQ ID NO 253 for use in methods for reducing B cells or treating disease associated with aberrant B cell activity comprising administering to a subject in need thereof an effective amount of CAS 024 provided herein.

In another aspect the present disclosure provides compositions and methods for the combined use of any CD37 specific binding molecule and bifunctional chemotherapeutics such as bendamustine to reduce B cells or treat a disease associated with aberrant B cell activity. A surprising result of this combination is that this combination of compounds acts synergistically and results in a substantially more effective therapeutic regimen.

Prior to setting forth this disclosure in more detail it may be helpful to an understanding thereof to provide definitions of certain terms to be used herein. Additional definitions are set forth throughout this disclosure.

In the present description any concentration range percentage range ratio range or integer range is to be understood to include the value of any integer within the recited range and when appropriate fractions thereof such as one tenth and one hundredth of an integer unless otherwise indicated. Also any number range recited herein relating to any physical feature such as polymer subunits size or thickness are to be understood to include any integer within the recited range unless otherwise indicated. As used herein about or consisting essentially of mean 20 of the indicated range value or structure unless otherwise indicated. It should be understood that the terms a and an as used herein refer to one or more of the enumerated components. The use of the alternative e.g. or should be understood to mean either one both or any combination thereof of the alternatives. As used herein the terms include and comprise are used synonymously. In addition it should be understood that the individual compounds or groups of compounds derived from the various combinations of the structures and substituents described herein are disclosed by the present application to the same extent as if each compound or group of compounds was set forth individually. Thus selection of particular structures or particular substituents is within the scope of the present disclosure.

A binding domain or binding region according to the present disclosure may be for example any protein polypeptide oligopeptide or peptide that possesses the ability to specifically recognize and bind to a biological molecule e.g. CD37 or complex of more than one of the same or different molecule or assembly or aggregate whether stable or transient. A binding region includes any naturally occurring synthetic semi synthetic or recombinantly produced binding partner for a biological molecule or other target of interest. A variety of assays are known for identifying binding domains of the present disclosure that specifically bind a particular target including Western blot ELISA or Biacore analysis.

Binding domains and fusion proteins thereof of this disclosure can be capable of binding to a desired degree including specifically or selectively binding a target while not significantly binding other components present in a test sample if they bind a target molecule with an affinity or K i.e. an equilibrium association constant of a particular binding interaction with units of 1 M of for example greater than or equal to about 10M 10M 10M 10M 10M 10M 10M 10M or 10M. High affinity binding domains refers to those binding domains with a Kof at least 10M at least 10M at least 10M at least 10M at least 10M at least 10M at least 10M or greater. Low affinity binding domains refers to those binding domains with a Kof up to 5 10M up to 10M up to 10M up to 10M or less. Alternatively affinity may be defined as an equilibrium dissociation constant K of a particular binding interaction with units of M e.g. 10M to 10M . Affinities of binding domain polypeptides and fusion proteins according to the present disclosure can be readily determined using conventional techniques see e.g. Scatchard et al. 1949 Ann. N.Y. Acad. Sci. 51 660 and U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 283 173 5 468 614 or the equivalent .

The term CD37 specific binding molecules refer to a protein polypeptide oligopeptide or peptide that specifically binds to CD37 with a Kof at least about 10M e.g. at least about 10M 10M 10M 10M 10M 10M or 10M .

The term CD37 specific binding domain refers to a portion or a domain of a CD37 specific binding molecule responsible for the specific CD37 binding of the molecule. A CD37 specific binding domain itself i.e. without any other portion of the CD37 specific binding molecule binds to CD37 with a Kof at least about 10M e.g. at least about 10M 10M 10M 10M 10M 10M or 10M . A CD37 specific binding domain itself may be sufficient as a CD37 specific binding molecule. Exemplary CD37 specific binding domains include CD37 specific scFv and Fab fragments which can be derived from anti CD37 antibodies such as monoclonal antibody G28 1.

Terms understood by those in the art as referring to antibody technology are each given the meaning acquired in the art unless expressly defined herein. For example the terms V and V refer to the variable binding region derived from an antibody light and heavy chain respectively. The variable binding regions are made up of discrete well defined sub regions known as complementarity determining regions CDRs and framework regions FRs . The terms C and C refer to an immunoglobulin constant region i.e. a constant region derived from an antibody light or heavy chain respectively with the latter region understood to be further divisible into C C Cand Cconstant region domains depending on the antibody isotype IgA IgD IgE IgG IgM from which the region was derived. A portion of the constant region domains makes up the Fc region the fragment crystallizable region which contains domains responsible for the effector functions of an immunoglobulin such as ADCC antibody dependent cell mediated cytotoxicity CDC complement dependent cytotoxicity and complement fixation binding to Fc receptors greater half life in vivo relative to a polypeptide lacking an Fc region protein A binding and perhaps even placental transfer see Capon et al. Nature 337 525 1989 . Further a polypeptide containing an Fc region allows for dimerization or multimerization of the polypeptide.

A hinge region is an amino acid sequence interposed between and connecting a CD37 specific binding domain and another region e.g. a CH2 region in a fusion protein so that the fusion protein is still capable of specific binding to CD37 i.e. with a Kof at least about 10M 10M 10M 10M 10M 10M 10M or 10M . In certain embodiments a hinge region is an immunoglobulin hinge region.

An immunoglobulin hinge region refers to a wild type immunoglobulin hinge region or an altered wild type immunoglobulin hinge region.

According to crystallographic studies the immunoglobulin hinge region can be further subdivided functionally into three regions the upper hinge region the core region and the lower hinge region. The upper hinge region includes amino acids from the carboxyl end of CH1 to the first residue in the hinge that restricts motion generally the first cysteine residue that forms an interchain disulfide bond between the two heavy chains. The length of the upper hinge region correlates with the segmental flexibility of the antibody. The core hinge region contains the inter heavy chain disulfide bridges and the lower hinge region joins the amino terminal end of the CH2 domain and includes residues in CH2. Id. The core hinge region of human IgG1 contains the sequence Cys Pro Pro Cys SEQ ID NO 264 which when dimerized by disulfide bond formation results in a cyclic octapeptide believed to act as a pivot thus conferring flexibility.

A wild type immunoglobulin hinge region as used herein refers to a naturally occurring amino acid sequence interposed between and connecting CH1 and CH2 regions of a single chain of an antibody. It contains the upper hinge region the core hinge region and the portion of the lower hinge region that is not part of CH2 region. An exemplary wild type immunoglobulin hinge region is human IgG1 hinge region as set forth in SEQ ID NO 90 in which from its amino terminus to its carboxyl terminus the first ten amino acids EPKSCDKTHT SEQ ID NO 263 form the upper hinge region the next four amino acids CPPC SEQ ID NO 264 form the core hinge region and the last amino acid i.e. proline is the first amino acid in the lower hinge region and is not part of CH2.

An altered wild type immunoglobulin hinge region or altered immunoglobulin hinge region refers to a a wild type immunoglobulin hinge region with up to 30 amino acid changes e.g. up to 25 20 15 10 or 5 amino acid substitutions or deletions b a portion of a wild type immunoglobulin hinge region that is at least 10 amino acids e.g. at least 12 13 14 or 15 amino acids in length with up to 30 amino acid changes e.g. up to 25 20 15 10 or 5 amino acid substitutions or deletions or c a portion of a wild type immunoglobulin hinge region that comprises the core hinge region which may be 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 or 15 or at least 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 or 15 amino acids in length . When an altered wild type immunoglobulin hinge region is interposed between and connecting a CD37 specific binding domain and another region e.g. a CH2 region in a fusion protein it allows the fusion protein to specifically bind to CD37 i.e. with a Kof at least about 10M 10M 10M 10M 10M 10M 10M or 10M . In certain embodiments one or more cysteine residues in a wild type immunoglobulin hinge region may be substituted by one or more other amino acid residues e.g. one or more serine residues . An altered immunoglobulin hinge region may alternatively or additionally have a proline residue of a wild type immunoglobulin hinge region substituted by another amino acid residue e.g. a serine residue .

A linker refers to an amino acid sequence that connects a heavy chain variable region and a light chain variable region together and provides a spacer function compatible with interaction of the two sub binding domains so that the resulting polypeptide is capable of CD37 specific binding.

 Derivative as used herein refers to a chemically or biologically modified version of a compound that is structurally similar to a parent compound and actually or theoretically derivable from that parent compound. Generally a derivative differs from an analogue in that a parent compound may be the starting material to generate a derivative whereas the parent compound may not necessarily be used as the starting material to generate an analogue. A derivative may have different chemical or physical properties from the parent compound. For example a derivative may be more hydrophilic or it may be a mutated sequence having altered reactivity e.g. a CDR having an amino acid change that alters its affinity for a target as compared to the parent compound or sequence.

 B cell associated disorder or disease refers to aberrant B cell activity or activity that deviates from the normal proper or expected course. For example a B cell associated disorder or disease may include inappropriate proliferation of cells that have damaged or defective DNA or other cellular components. Aberrant B cell activity may include cell proliferation characterized by inappropriately high levels of cell division inappropriately low levels of apoptosis or both. Such diseases may have for example single or multiple local abnormal proliferations of cells groups of cells or tissue s whether cancerous or non cancerous benign or malignant. A B cell associated disorder or disease may also include aberrant antibody production such as production of autoantibodies or overproduction of antibodies more desirable when produced at normal levels. It is also contemplated herein that aberrant B cell activity may occur in certain subpopulations of B cells and not in other subpopulations or may include inappropriate stimulation of T cells such as by inappropriate antigen presentation to T cells or by other B cells pathway.

 Treatment or treating refers to either a therapeutic treatment or prophylactic preventative treatment. A therapeutic treatment may improve at least one symptom of disease in an individual receiving treatment or may delay worsening of a progressive disease in an individual or prevent onset of additional associated diseases.

A therapeutically effective amount or dose or effective amount or dose of a specific binding molecule or compound refers to that amount of the compound sufficient to result in amelioration of one or more symptoms of the disease being treated. When applied to an individual active ingredient administered alone a therapeutically effective dose refers to that ingredient alone. When applied to a combination a therapeutically effective dose refers to combined amounts of the active ingredients that result in the therapeutic effect whether administered serially or simultaneously. The invention specifically contemplates that one or more specific binding molecules may be administered according to methods of the invention each in an effective dose.

 An individual having or suspected of having a disease associated with aberrant B cell activity is an individual in whom a disease or a symptom of a disorder may be caused by aberrant B cell activity or B cell proliferation may be exacerbated by aberrant B cell activity or may be relieved by regulation of B cell activity. Examples of such diseases are a B cell malignancy or B cell cancer for example B cell lymphoma a B cell leukemia or a B cell myeloma a disease characterized by autoantibody production or a disease characterized by inappropriate T cell stimulation caused by inappropriate B cell antigen presentation to T cells or caused by other pathways involving B cells.

In one aspect the present disclosure provides humanized CD37 specific binding molecules. These molecules may be in any form that contains a humanized CD37 specific binding domain including a humanized anti CD37 antibody an Fab fragment of a humanized anti CD37 antibody a humanized CD37 specific single chain Fv scFv a humanized CD37 specific SMIP protein a humanized CD37 specific PIMS protein a fusion protein comprising the components of SMIP in the reverse orientation a humanized CD37 specific SCORPION protein and other bi or multi specific binding proteins that comprise at least one humanized CD37 specific binding domain. Detailed description of SMIP proteins and methods for making the same may be found for example in U.S. Patent Publication Nos. 2003 0133939 2003 0118592 and 2005 0136049 and WO 2005017148. Constructs and methods for making PIMS proteins are described in U.S. application Ser. No. 12 168 875. Methods for making SCORPION proteins may be found for example in PCT Application Publication No. WO 2007 146968. Other exemplary multi functional fusion proteins may be found for example in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2006 0051844 and U.S. Pat. No. 7 166 707. Certain bi or multi specific binding proteins may comprise a CD37 specific scFv and one or more other binding domains that are not derived from an immunoglobulin.

An exemplary humanized CD37 specific binding domain is an immunoglobulin variable region specific for CD37 that comprises at least one human framework region.

A human framework region refers to a wild type i.e. naturally occurring framework region of a human immunoglobulin variable region an altered framework region of a human immunoglobulin variable region with less than about 50 e.g. preferably less than about 45 40 30 25 20 15 10 5 or 1 of the amino acids in the region are deleted or substituted e.g. with one or more amino acid residues of a nonhuman immunoglobulin framework region at corresponding positions or an altered framework region of a nonhuman immunoglobulin variable region with less than about 50 e.g. less than 45 40 30 25 20 15 10 or 5 of the amino acids in the region deleted or substituted e.g. at positions of exposed residues and or with one or more amino acid residues of a human immunoglobulin framework region at corresponding positions so that in one aspect immunogenicity is reduced.

In certain embodiments a human framework region is a wild type framework region of a human immunoglobulin variable region. In certain other embodiments a human framework region is an altered framework region of a human immunoglobulin variable region with amino acid deletions or substitutions at one two three four or five positions. In yet certain other embodiments a human framework region is an altered framework region of a non human immunoglobulin variable region with amino acid deletions or substitutions at one two three four or five positions.

In certain embodiments a humanized CD37 specific binding domain comprises at least one two three four five six seven or eight human framework regions FR selected from human light chain FR1 human heavy chain FR1 human light chain FR2 human heavy chain FR2 human light chain FR3 human heavy chain FR3 human light chain FR4 and human heavy chain FR4.

Exemplary human FRs are set forth in SEQ ID NOS 140 146 human heavy chain FR1 SEQ ID NOS 147 150 and 151 human heavy chain FR2 SEQ ID NO 154 160 human heavy chain FR3 SEQ ID NOS 161 163 168 and 169 human heavy chain FR4 SEQ ID NOS 170 172 175 and 177 181 human light chain FR1 SEQ ID NOS 182 184 188 and 191 human light chain FR2 SEQ ID NOS 194 198 203 and 205 human light chain FR3 and SEQ ID NOS 206 210 human light chain FR4 . Additional exemplary human FR regions may be found in FR regions of the CD37 specific SMIP proteins provided herein such as CAS 001 CAS 002 CAS 003 or CAS 024.

Human FRs that may be present in CD37 specific binding domains also include variants of the exemplary FRs provided herein in which one or two amino acids of the exemplary FRs have been substituted or deleted.

In certain embodiments a humanized CD37 specific binding domain comprises a a humanized light chain variable region that comprises a human light chain FR1 a human light chain FR2 a human light chain FR3 and a human light chain FR4 and b a humanized heavy chain variable region that comprises a human heavy chain FR1 a human heavy chain FR2 a human heavy chain FR3 and a human heavy chain FR4.

CD37 specific binding domains provided herein also comprise one two three four five or six CDRs. Such CDRs may be nonhuman CDRs or altered nonhuman CDRs selected from CDR1 CDR2 and CDR3 of the light chain and CDR1 CDR2 and CDR3 of the heavy chain. In certain embodiments a CD37 specific binding domain comprises a a light chain variable region that comprises a light chain CDR1 a light chain CDR2 and a light chain CDR3 and b a heavy chain variable region that comprises a heavy chain CDR1 a heavy chain CDR2 and a heavy chain CDR3.

Exemplary CDRs include CDR1 of the light chain as set forth in SEQ ID NO 61 RASENVYSYLA or SEQ ID NO 62 RTSENVYSYLA CDR1 of the heavy chain as set forth in SEQ ID NO 63 GYNMN CDR2 of the light chain as set forth in SEQ ID NO 64 FAKTLAE CDR2 of the heavy chain as set forth in SEQ ID NO 65 NIDPYYGGTTYNRKFKG CDR3 of the light chain as set forth in SEQ ID NO 66 QHHSDNPWT CDR3 of the heavy chain as set forth in SEQ ID NO 67 SVGPFDY CDR3 of the heavy chain as set forth in SEQ ID NO 68 SVGPFDS and CDR3 of the heavy chain as set forth in SEQ ID NO 69 SVGPMDY . Preferred light chain CDR1 is SEQ ID NO 61 RASENVYSYLA and preferred heavy chain CDR3 include SEQ ID NO 68 SVGPFDS or SEQ ID NO 69 SVGPMDY .

Additional exemplary CDRs include CDR1 of the light chain as set forth in SEQ ID NO 128 RTSQNVYSYLA 129 RTSESVYSYLA 130 RASQSVYSYLA 131 RASQSVSSYLA and 132 RASQSVSYYLA CDR1 of the heavy chain as set forth in SEQ ID NOS 133 SYMNM and 134 SYWIG CDR2 of the light chain as set forth in SEQ ID NOS 135 AASSLQS 136 GASTRAT and 137 DASNRAT CDR2 of the heavy chain as set forth in SEQ ID NOS 138 IIYPGDSDTRYSPSFQG and 139 RIDPSDSYTNYSPSFQG CDR3 of the light chain as set forth in SEQ ID NO 220 QHHSDNPWT and CDR3 of the heavy chain as set forth in SEQ ID NOS 211 SVGPMDY 212 SVGPFDY 213 SVGPMDV 214 SVGPFDS 215 SVGPFDP 216 SVGPFQH 217 SVGPFDV 218 SVGPFDI and 219 SVGPFDL . Further exemplary CDRs include the CDRs in the CD37 specific SMIP proteins provided herein.

In certain embodiments CD37 specific binding domains comprise a humanized light chain variable region that comprises from its amino terminus to carboxyl terminus human light chain FR1 light chain CDR1 human light chain FR2 light chain CDR2 human light chain FR3 light chain CDR3 and human light chain FR4.

In certain embodiments CD37 specific binding domains comprise a humanized light chain variable region that comprises from its amino terminus to carboxyl terminus human light chain FR1 light chain CDR1 as set forth in SEQ ID NO 61 or 62 human light chain FR2 light chain CDR2 as set forth in SEQ ID NO 64 human light chain FR3 light chain CDR3 as set forth in SEQ ID NO 66 and human light chain FR4. In further embodiments CD37 specific binding domains comprise consist essentially of or consist of a humanized light chain variable region that comprises from its amino terminus to carboxyl terminus human light chain FR1 as set forth in SEQ ID NO 171 light chain CDR1 as set forth in SEQ ID NO 61 human light chain FR2 as set forth in SEQ ID NO 182 light chain CDR2 as set forth in SEQ ID NO 64 human light chain FR3 as set forth in SEQ ID NO 195 light chain CDR3 as set forth in SEQ ID NO 66 and human light chain FR4 as set forth in SEQ ID NO 206. Additional exemplary humanized light chains are set forth in SEQ ID NOS 237 240 and include the light chains in humanized CD37 specific SMIP proteins provided herein.

In certain embodiments CD37 specific binding domains comprise a humanized heavy chain variable region that comprises from its amino terminus to carboxyl terminus human heavy chain FR1 heavy chain CDR1 human heavy chain FR2 heavy chain CDR2 human heavy chain FR3 heavy chain CDR3 and human heavy chain FR4.

In certain embodiments CD37 specific binding domains comprise a humanized heavy chain variable region that comprises from its amino terminus to carboxyl terminus human heavy chain FR1 heavy chain CDR1 as set forth in SEQ ID NO 63 human heavy chain FR2 heavy chain CDR2 as set forth in SEQ ID NO 65 human heavy chain FR3 heavy chain CDR3 as set forth in SEQ ID NO 67 68 or 69 and human heavy chain FR4. In further embodiments CD37 specific binding domains comprise consist essentially of or consist of a humanized heavy chain variable region that comprises from its amino terminus to carboxyl terminus human heavy chain FR1 as set forth in SEQ ID NO 144 heavy chain CDR1 as set forth in SEQ ID NO 63 human heavy chain FR2 as set forth in SEQ ID NO 151 heavy chain CDR2 as set forth in SEQ ID NO 65 human heavy chain FR3 as set forth in SEQ ID NO 158 heavy chain CDR3 as set forth in SEQ ID NO 67 68 or 69 and human heavy chain FR4 as set forth in SEQ ID NO 161. Additional exemplary humanized light chains are set forth in SEQ ID NOS 242 245 and include the light chains in humanized CD37 specific SMIP proteins provided herein.

In certain embodiments CD37 specific binding domains may be in the form of a Fab or scFv fragment. In a preferred embodiment the CD37 specific binding domain is a humanized CD37 specific scFv that comprises a light chain variable region and a heavy chain variable region joined together via a linker. In further embodiments both the light and heavy chain variable regions are humanized and may comprise both a humanized light chain variable region as set forth in SEQ ID NO 238 and a humanized heavy chain variable region as set forth in SEQ ID NO 245.

In still further embodiments only the light or heavy chain variable region is humanized. For example CD37 specific binding domains may comprise a humanized light chain variable region i.e. a light chain variable region that comprises at least one human FR and a nonhuman heavy chain variable chain region e.g. mouse or rat . Alternatively CD37 specific binding domains may comprise a nonhuman light chain variable region e.g. mouse or rat and a humanized heavy chain variable chain region i.e. a heavy chain variable region that comprises at least one human FR . Both types of CD37 specific binding domains may be referred to as a hybrid human nonhuman CD37 specific binding domain or as a chimeric CD37 specific binding domains. 

In certain embodiments the carboxyl terminus of the light chain variable region in a humanized CD37 specific scFv is linked to the amino terminus of the heavy chain variable region via a linker. Thus the resulting scFv has from its amino terminus to its carboxyl terminus the light chain variable region the linker and the heavy chain variable region. In certain other embodiments the carboxyl terminus of the heavy chain variable region in a humanized CD37 specific scFv is linked to the amino terminus of the light chain variable region via a linker. Thus the resulting scFv has from its amino terminus to its carboxyl terminus the heavy chain variable region the linker and the heavy chain variable region.

In certain embodiments the linkers have 5 30 amino acids such as 15 25 amino acids. In certain embodiments the linkers comprises GlySer wherein n and m may be an integer independently selected from 1 to 5 SEQ ID NOs 229 272 293 . For example in certain embodiments n is 4 and m is 1 2 3 4 or 5 SEQ ID NOs 229 272 275 . In certain embodiments one or two amino acids other than Gly or Ser may be present at the amino terminus carboxyl terminus or both termini. In certain other embodiments one or two amino acids other than Gly or Ser may be used to substitute a Gly or Ser in a linker that comprises GlySer with m and n as defined above. An exemplary linker has the sequence GlyS as set forth in SEQ ID NO 229. Additional exemplary linker sequences are set forth in SEQ ID NOS 225 228.

In certain embodiments humanized CD37 specific binding domains or CD37 specific binding molecules competes with G28 1 mAb for binding to CD37. In other words in such embodiments CD37 binding of G28 1 mAb is reduced in the presence of other CD37 specific binding domains such as anti CD37 monoclonal antibodies or CD37 specific binding molecules compared to CD37 binding of G28 1 mAb in the absence of CD37 specific binding domains or CD37 specific binding molecules. Competitive binding assays are known in the art such as those described in the Examples 4 6 and may be used to determine whether a given CD37 specific binding domain or CD37 specific binding molecule is capable of competing with G28 1 mAb for binding to CD37.

In certain embodiments CD37 specific binding molecules are CD37 specific small modular immunopharmaceutical SMIP polypeptides. SMIP proteins are binding domain immunoglobulin fusion proteins that typically comprise from their amino termini to carboxyl termini a binding domain derived from an immunoglobulin e.g. a scFv a hinge region and an effector domain e.g. IgG CH2 and CH3 regions . In preferred embodiments the CD37 specific binding SMIP polypeptides are humanized.

The hinge region of a humanized CD37 specific binding SMIP polypeptide may be an immunoglobulin hinge region. In certain embodiments the hinge region is a wild type immunoglobulin hinge region such as an IgG hinge IgA hinge IgD hinge IgE hinge or a fragment thereof e.g. 4 to 20 or 5 to 15 amino acids in length that comprises a core hinge region. In certain preferred embodiments a hinge region may be an antibody hinge region selected from human IgG1 human IgG2 human IgG3 human IgG4 or fragments or variants thereof. In some embodiments the hinge region is a wild type immunoglobulin hinge region or portion thereof such as a human immunoglobulin hinge region. Exemplary hinges for such embodiments are wild type human IgG1 hinge region as set forth in SEQ ID NO 90 wild type human IgA1 hinge as set forth in SEQ ID NO 115 wild type human IgA2 hinge as set forth in SEQ ID NO 116 wild type human IgG3 hinge as set forth in SEQ ID NO 118 a portion of human IgG3 hinge as set forth in SEQ ID NO 258 and human IgD hinge as set forth in SEQ ID NO 127. In certain embodiments one or more amino acid residues may be added at the amino or carboxy terminus of a wild type immunoglobulin hinge region as part of fusion protein construct design. Such amino acid residues are referred to as junction amino acids see Table 4 .

In certain embodiments the hinge region is an altered mutated wild type immunoglobulin hinge region such as an altered wild type IgG immunoglobulin hinge region or an altered portion of a wild type immunoglobulin hinge region. For example the wild type human IgG1 hinge region contains three cysteine residues the most N terminal cysteine is referred to the first cysteine whereas the most C terminal cysteine in the hinge region is the third cysteine. In certain embodiments the mutated human IgG1 hinge region has only two cysteine residues such as a human IgG1 hinge region with the first cysteine substituted by a serine. In certain other embodiments the mutated human IgG1 hinge region has only one cysteine residue. In certain embodiments the proline C terminal to the third cysteine in the human IgG1 hinge region is substituted for example by a serine. Exemplary mutated human IgG1 hinge regions are as set forth in SEQ ID NOS 92 94 102 104 255 256 106 108 257 96 110 112 98 and 100. Exemplary mutated portions of human IgG3 hinge regions are as set forth in SEQ ID NOS 120 126 259 261 122 and 124. In certain embodiments one or more amino acid residues may be added at the amino or carboxy terminus of a mutated immunoglobulin hinge region as part of fusion protein construct design. Examples of such modified hinge regions are indicated in italics in SEQ ID NOS 231 235.

In certain embodiments a hinge region comprises or has a sequence that is at least 80 at least 81 at least 82 at least 83 at least 84 at least 85 at least 86 at least 87 at least 88 at least 89 at least 90 at least 91 at least 92 at least 93 at least 94 at least 95 at least 96 at least 97 at least 98 at least 99 identical to a wild type immunoglobulin hinge region such as a wild type human IgG1 IgG2 IgG3 IgG4 IgA1 IgA2 IgD and IgE hinges.

In further embodiments altered hinge regions can be based on a wild type immunoglobulin hinge region e.g. an IgG1 hinge region and contain one or more e.g. 1 2 3 or 4 insertions one or more e.g. 1 2 3 or 4 deletions one or more e.g. 1 2 3 or 4 amino acid substitutions e.g. conservative amino acid substitutions or non conservative amino acid substitutions or a combination of the above noted mutations when compared with the wild type immunoglobulin hinge region but provided that the modified hinge retains the flexibility or rigidity suitable for properly orienting the binding domain of a fusion binding protein to interact with its target. The insertion s deletion s or substitution s may be anywhere in the wild type immunoglobulin hinge region including at the amino or carboxy terminus or both.

As described herein CD37 specific SMIP polypeptides may comprise an immunoglobulin Cregion. In certain embodiments the immunoglobulin Cregion is a wild type immunoglobulin Cregion such as a wild type human immunoglobulin Cregion including wild type human IgA1 IgA2 IgD IgE IgG1 IgG2 IgG3 IgG4 and IgM Cregions. In certain embodiments the immunoglobulin Cregion is a human IgG1 Cregion.

In certain other embodiments the immunoglobulin Cregion is an altered wild type immunoglobulin Cregion. For example the altered wild type immunoglobulin Cregion may be a human IgG1 Cregion but with one two three four or five mutations at positions 234 to 238 253 279 310 318 320 322 and 331 EU numbering Ward et al. 1995 2 77 94 . The mutations in such positions reduce or eliminate the antibody dependent cell mediated cytotoxicity ADCC activity Fc receptor binding capability and or complement fixation.

As described herein a humanized CD37 specific SMIP polypeptides may comprise an immunoglobulin Cregion. In certain embodiments an immunoglobulin Cregion polypeptide is a wild type immunoglobulin Cregion polypeptide including a wild type Cregion of any one of the various immunoglobulin isotypes e.g. IgA IgD IgG1 IgG2 IgG3 IgG4 IgE or IgM from various species i.e. human mouse rat or other mammals . In other embodiments an immunoglobulin Cregion polypeptide is a mutated immunoglobulin Cregion polypeptide. The mutations in the immunoglobulin Cregion may be at one or more positions that are involved in complement fixation such as at H433 or N434.

In certain embodiments a humanized CD37 specific SMIP polypeptides may contain one or more additional regions. Such additional regions may be a leader sequence at the amino terminus for secretion of an expressed SMIP polypeptide an additional Fc sub region e.g. a wild type or mutated Cregion of IgM or IgE a tail sequence at its carboxy terminus for identification or purification purposes e.g. epitope tags for detection or purification including a 6 Histidine tag or a FLAG epitope or additional amino acid residues that arise from use of specific expression systems. Exemplary leader peptides of this disclosure include natural leader sequences or others such as those as set forth in SEQ ID NOS 223 and 224.

This disclosure includes CD37 specific SMIP polypeptides that exhibit at least 80 percent identity e.g. 82 84 85 86 88 90 92 94 95 96 97 98 or 99 to the polypeptide set forth in SEQ ID NO 2 wherein the CD37 specific SMIP polypeptide binds CD37. In further embodiments such polypeptides having at least 80 identity with SEQ ID NO 2 may be further humanized. Exemplary humanized CD37 specific SMIP polypeptides comprise consist essential of or consist of any amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOS 6 8 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 26 28 30 32 34 36 38 40 42 44 46 48 52 80 82 84 86 88 and 222 in which the leader sequences are deleted as well as SEQ ID NOS 247 254 and 266 269.

 Sequence identity as used herein refers to the percentage of amino acid residues in one sequence that are identical with the amino acid residues in another reference polypeptide sequence after aligning the sequences and introducing gaps if necessary to achieve the maximum percent sequence identity and not considering any conservative substitutions as part of the sequence identity. The percentage sequence identity values are generated by the NCBI BLAST2.0 software as defined by Altschul et al. 1997 Gapped BLAST and PSI BLAST a new generation of protein database search programs Nucleic Acids Res. 25 3389 3402 with the parameters set to default values.

In a preferred embodiment the present disclosure provides a humanized CD37 specific SMIP polypeptide that comprises from amino terminus to carboxyl terminus a humanized heavy chain variable region V a GS linker SEQ ID NO 229 a humanized light chain variable region V an altered IgG1 hinge a human IgG1 CH2 region and a human IgG1 CH3 region. The humanized heavy chain variable region comprises from its amino terminus to its carboxyl terminus a human heavy chain FR1 a heavy chain CDR1 as set forth in SEQ ID NO 63 a human heavy chain FR2 a CDR2 as set forth in SEQ ID NO 65 a human heavy chain FR3 CDR3 as set forth in SEQ ID NO 67 68 or 69 and a human heavy chain FR4. The humanized light chain variable region comprises from its amino terminus to its carboxyl terminus a human light chain FR1 a light chain CDR1 as set forth in SEQ ID NO 61 or 62 a human light chain FR2 a light chain CDR2 as set forth in SEQ ID NO 64 a human light chain FR3 and a light chain CDR3 as set forth in SEQ ID NO 66 and a human light chain FR4.

In some of the above preferred embodiments the human heavy chain FR1 FR2 and FR3 comprise SEQ ID NOS 144 151 and 158 respectively and the heavy chain FR4 comprises SEQ ID NO 161 or 162. In further preferred embodiments the human light chain FR1 FR2 FR3 and FR4 comprise SEQ ID NOS 171 182 195 and 206 respectively. Alternatively both the heavy and light chains contain these sequences.

The CAS 024 SMIP protein is unexpectedly 1 expressed at up to about 25 fold higher levels than other humanized versions of CAS 006 such as CAS 002 CAS 003 see Examples 2 and 5 2 capable of binding CD37 as well as CAS 006 while other humanized versions do not see Examples 4 and 5 and 3 produced as a homogenous population of molecules as compared the heterogenous nature of other humanized versions see Example 3 In a preferred embodiment the instant disclosure provides a CD37 specific binding protein that comprises or consists of CAS 024 SEQ ID NO 253 . In particular this humanized CD37 specific binding molecule has substantially the same CD37 binding affinity as its parent chimeric molecule CAS 006 SMIP protein having the immunoglobulin variable regions from mouse anti human CD37 monoclonal antibody G28 1 in contrast to other humanized molecules is expressed at high levels compared to other humanized molecules and or shows a high degree of homogeneity when purified for example via size exclusion chromatography SEC in contrast to other humanized molecules. In addition this CAS 024 CD37 specific binding molecule has been shown to be effective in inhibiting tumor growth and causing long term tumor regression.

The disclosure also includes an isolated nucleic acid molecule comprising a nucleotide sequence encoding humanized CD37 specific binding molecules and the components thereof including human or humanized FRs CDRs humanized light chain variable regions humanized heavy chain variable regions humanized scFv and humanized SMIP polypeptides. Exemplary isolated nucleic acid molecules that encode humanized CD37 specific SMIP polypeptides include those that comprise SEQ ID NOS 5 7 9 11 13 15 17 19 21 23 25 27 29 31 33 35 37 39 41 43 45 47 51 79 81 83 85 87 and 221. In one embodiment the disclosure includes vectors that comprise these nucleic acid molecules and host cells that comprise the vectors.

The disclosure also includes processes of producing the polypeptides described herein comprising culturing the host cells under suitable conditions to express the polypeptides and optionally isolating the polypeptides from the culture.

The present disclosure also provides a combination therapy using any of the CD37 specific binding molecules known in the art or disclosed herein and bifunctional chemotherapeutics e.g. bendamustine .

The CD37 specific binding molecules useful for the combination therapy may be in any forms that contain a CD37 specific binding domain including an anti CD37 antibody an Fab fragment of anti CD37 antibody a CD37 specific single chain Fv scFv a CD37 specific SMIP a CD37 specific PIMS a CD37 specific SCORPION and other bi or multi specific binding proteins that comprise at least one CD37 specific binding protein.

In certain embodiments the CD37 specific binding molecules useful for combination therapy with a bifunctional chemotherapeutic are CD37 specific antibodies. Such antibodies include those used for characterizing the CD37 antigen in the Third HLDA Workshop i.e. HD28 G28 1 HH1 Bl14 WR17 and F93G6 see Ling and MacLennan pp. 302 335 in Leucocyte Typing III. White Cell Differentiation Antigens Oxford University Press 1987 . Other CD37 specific antibodies useful for the combination therapy include RFB 7 Y29 55 MB 1 M B371 M B372 and IPO 24 see Moldenhaurer J. Biol. Regul. Homeost. Agents 14 281 283 2000 stating that all these antibodies recognize only one CD37 epitope and Schwartz Albiez et al. 14 905 914 1988 indicating that the epitope is situated in the carbohydrate moiety of CD37 . Another CD37 specific antibody that may be used in combination therapy is S B3 Biosys .

In certain embodiments the CD37 specific binding molecules useful for combination therapy with a bifunctional chemotherapeutic are CD37 specific SMIP polypeptides. An exemplary SMIP polypeptide comprises SEQ ID NO 2. Additional exemplary SMIP polypeptides include those described in WO 2005017148 such as 1 G28 1 scFv SSS S H WCH2 WCH3 comprising a G28 1 scFv an altered human IgG1 hinge in which all three cysteine residues and a proline carboxyl terminus to the third cysteine in a human IgG1 hinge region are mutated to serine residues and wild type human IgG1 CH2 and CH3 domains 2 G28 1 scFv IgAH WCH2 WCH3 comprising a G28 1 scFv a portion of human IgA hinge and human IgG1 CH2 and CH3 domains 3 G28 1 scFv VHL11S SSS S H WCH2 CH3 comprising a G28 1 scFv an altered human IgG1 hinge in which all three cysteine residues and a proline carboxyl terminus to the third cysteine in the hinge region are mutated to serine residues and human IgG1 CH2 and CH3 domains wherein the leucine at position 11 of the heavy chain variable region is substituted with a serine 4 G28 1 scFv VH L11S CSS S H WCH2 CH3 comprising a G28 1 scFv an altered human IgG1 hinge in which the cysteine residues at the second and third positions and a proline carboxyl terminus to the third cysteine are substituted with serine residues and human IgG1 CH2 and CH3 domains wherein the leucine at position 11 of the heavy chain variable region is substituted with a serine 5 G28 1 scFv VHL11S CSC S H WCH2 CH3 comprising a G28 1 scFv an altered human IgG1 hinge in which the cysteine residue at the second position and a proline carboxyl terminus to the cysteine at the third position were substituted with serine residues and human IgG1 CH2 and CH3 domains wherein the leucine at position 11 of the heavy chain variable region is substituted with a serine 6 G28 1 scFv VH11S SSC P H WCH2 WCH3 comprising a G28 1 scFv an altered human IgG1 hinge in which the first and second cysteine residues in the hinge region are mutated to serine residues and human IgG1 CH2 and CH3 domains wherein the leucine at position 11 of the heavy chain variable region is substituted with a serine 7 G28 1 scFv VH11S SCS S H WCH2 WCH3 comprising a G28 1 scFv an altered human IgG1 hinge in which the first and third cysteine residues and a proline carboxyl terminus to the third cysteine in the hinge regions are mutated to serine residues and human IgG1 CH2 and CH3 domains wherein the leucine at position 11 of the heavy chain variable region is substituted with a serine 8 G28 1 scFv VHL11S CCS P H WCH2 WCH3 comprising a G28 1 scFv an altered human IgG1 hinge in which the third cysteine residue in the hinge region is substituted with a serine and human IgG1 CH2 and CH3 domains wherein the leucine at position 11 of the heavy chain variable region is substituted with a serine 9 G28 1 scFv VHL11S SCC P H WCH2 WCH3 comprising a G28 1 scFv an altered human IgG1 hinge in which the first cysteine is substituted with a serine and human CH2 and CH3 domains wherein the leucine at position 11 of the heavy chain variable region is substituted with a serine 10 G28 1 scFv VH L11S mIgE CH2 CH3 CH4 comprising a G28 1 scFv and mouse IgE CH2 CH3 and CH4 regions wherein the leucine at position 11 of the heavy chain variable region is substituted with a serine 11 G28 1 scFv VH L11S mIgA WIgACH2 T4 CH3 comprising a G28 1 scFv a mouse IgA hinge and a wild type IgA CH2 and a truncated IgA CH3 domain lacking the 4 carboxy amino acids GTCY SEQ ID NO 265 12 G28 1 scFv VHL11S hIgE CH2 CH3 CH4 comprising a G28 1 scFv and human IgE CH2 CH3 and CH4 regions wherein the leucine at position 11 of the heavy chain variable region is substituted with a serine and 13 G28 1 scFv VHL11S hIgAH WIgACH2 TCH3 comprising a G28 1 scFv a portion of human IgA hinge a wild type IgA CH2 and a truncated IgA CH3 domain lacking the 4 carboxy amino acids GTCY SEQ ID NO 265 wherein the leucine at position 11 of the heavy chain variable region is substituted with a serine.

In certain embodiments CD37 specific binding molecules useful for combination therapy with a bifunctional chemotherapeutic are humanized CD37 specific binding molecules described herein including humanized anti CD37 antibodies Fab fragments of humanized anti CD37 antibody humanized CD37 specific PIMS protein humanized CD37 specific SCORPION protein and other bi or multi specific binding proteins that comprise at least one humanized CD37 specific binding protein especially humanized CD37 specific single chain Fv scFv and humanized CD37 specific SMIP polypeptides.

Certain CD37 specific binding molecules contemplated in this disclosure have affinities for CD37 of about 0.5 to about 10 nM. Another characteristic of certain CD37 binding molecules contemplated in this disclosure is that they exhibit a half life in circulation of about 5 to about 30 days.

In certain embodiments CD37 specific binding molecules are capable of competing with G28 1 mAb in CD37 specific binding.

Bendamustine 4 5 Bis 2 chloroethyl amino 1 methylbenzimidazol 2 yl butanoic acid is a nitrogen mustard with alkylator and antimetabolite activities. Bendamustine has both an alkylating group and a benzimidazole ring. The alkylating group allows bendamustine metabolites to alkylate and crosslink macromolecules resulting in DNA RNA and protein synthesis inhibition and subsequently apoptosis. The benzimidazole ring may allow bendamustine to act as a purine analogue. Bendamustine hydrochloride has trade names TREANDA and RIBOMUSTIN .

Although bendamustine or its salts are preferred therapeutic agents that may be used in combination with CD37 specific binding molecules other therapeutic agents that both comprise one or more alkylating groups and are capable of functioning as a purine analogue may also be used in combination with CD37 specific binding molecules according to the present disclosure.

The term alkylating group as used herein refers to a group that enables the compound comprising this group to attach an alkyl group to DNA. The compound that comprises an alkylating group may be referred to as an alkylating agent. In certain embodiments alkylating agents are nitrogen mustards.

The term purine analogue refers to an antimetabolite that mimics the structure of metabolic purines e.g. adenine and guanine and has one two three or four substituents at the purine ring that differ from metabolic purines. Exemplary purine analogues include azathioprine mercaptopurine thioguanine fludarabine pentostatin and cladribine.

A therapeutic agent is capable of functioning as a purine analogue if it possesses at least one function of a purine analogue. Exemplary functions of purine analogues include interference with or inhibition of purine nucleotide synthesis purine nucleotide metabolism nucleic acid synthesis nucleic acid processing or nucleic acid function such as inhibiting ribonucleotide reductase DNA polymerase adenosine deaminase and being incorporated into DNA or RNA.

In one aspect the present disclosure provides a method for reducing B cells or treating a disease associated with aberrant B cell activity comprising administering to a subject in need thereof i.e. an individual having or suspected of having a disease associated with aberrant B cell activity an effective amount of a humanized CD37 specific binding molecule provided herein e.g. CAS 024 .

In another aspect the present disclosure provides a method for reducing B cells or treating a disease associated with aberrant B cell activity comprising administering to a subject in need thereof an effective amount of a CD37 specific binding molecule e.g. CAS 024 and a bifunctional chemotherapeutic e.g. bendamustine . As described above CD37 specific binding molecules useful for combination therapy with a bifunctional chemotherapeutic are not limited to humanized CD37 specific binding molecules but include other CD37 specific binding molecules that have not been humanized.

In one embodiment a composition comprising a CD37 therapeutic and a bifunctional chemotherapeutic act synergistically in reducing B cells or treating a disease associated with aberrant B cell activity. Two or more compounds that act synergistically interact such that the combined effect of the compounds is greater than the sum of the individual effects of each compound when administered alone see e.g. Berenbaum Pharmacol. Rev. 41 93 1989 . For example an interaction between small modular immunopharmaceutical that targets CD37 and another agent or compound may be analyzed by a variety of mechanistic and empirical models see e.g. Ouzounov et al. Antivir. Res. 55 425 2002 . A commonly used approach for analyzing the interaction between a combination of agents employs the construction of isoboles iso effect curves also referred to as isobolograms in which the combination of agents d d is represented by a point on a graph the axes of which are the dose axes of the individual agents see e.g. Ouzounov et al. supra see also Tallarida J. Pharmacol. Exp. Therap. 298 865 2001 .

Another method for analyzing drug drug interactions antagonism additivity synergism known in the art includes determination of combination indices CI according to the median effect principle to provide estimates of ICvalues of compounds administered alone and in combination see e.g. Chou. In Synergism and Antagonism Chemotherapy. Eds. Chou and Rideout. Academic Press San Diego Calif. pages 61 102 1991 CalcuSyn software . A CI value of less than one represents synergistic activity equal to one represents additive activity and greater than one represents antagonism.

Still another exemplary method is the independent effect method Pritchard and Shipman Antiviral Res. 14 181 1990 Pritchard and Shipman Antiviral Therapy 1 9 1996 MACSYNERGY II software University of Michigan Ann Arbor Mich. . MACSYNERGY II software allows a three dimensional 3 D examination of compound interactions by comparing a calculated additive surface to observed data to generate differential plots that reveal regions in the form of a volume of statistically greater than expected synergy or less than expected antagonism compound interactions. For example a composition comprising a CD37 specific binding molecule and a bifunctional chemotherapeutic alters viral replication will be considered to have synergistic activity or have a synergistic effect when the volume of synergy produced as calculated by the volume of the synergy peaks is preferably about 15 greater than the additive effect that is the effect of each agent alone added together or preferably about a 2 fold to 10 fold greater than the additive effect or preferably about a 3 fold to 5 fold or more greater than the additive effect.

In further embodiments a CD37 specific binding molecule and a bifunctional chemotherapeutic can be administered to act synergistically in the treatment of B cell malignancies or B cell cancers. B cell malignancies or B cell cancers include B cell lymphomas such as various forms of Hodgkin s disease non Hodgkins lymphoma NHL or central nervous system lymphomas leukemias such as acute lymphoblastic leukemia ALL chronic lymphocytic leukemia CLL Hairy cell leukemia and chronic myoblastic leukemia and myelomas such as multiple myeloma . Additional B cell cancers include small lymphocytic lymphoma B cell prolymphocytic leukemia lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma splenic marginal zone lymphoma plasma cell myeloma solitary plasmacytoma of bone extraosseous plasmacytoma extra nodal marginal zone B cell lymphoma of mucosa associated MALT lymphoid tissue nodal marginal zone B cell lymphoma follicular lymphoma mantle cell lymphoma diffuse large B cell lymphoma mediastinal thymic large B cell lymphoma intravascular large B cell lymphoma primary effusion lymphoma Burkitt lymphoma leukemia B cell proliferations of uncertain malignant potential lymphomatoid granulomatosis and post transplant lymphoproliferative disorder.

Burkitt s lymphoma or Burkitt s B cell malignancy or Burkitt s tumor or Malignant lymphoma Burkitt s type is a cancer of the lymphatic system in particular B lymphocytes . It can be divided into three main clinical variants the endemic the sporadic and the immunodeficiency associated variants.

Non Burkitt s B cell malignancies include but are not limited to B cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia CLL small lymphocytic lymphoma B cell prolymphocytic leukemia an acute lymphoblastic leukemia ALL lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma including but not limited to Waldenstrom s macroglobulinemia marginal zone lymphomas including but not limited to splenic marginal zone B cell lymphoma nodal marginal zone lymphoma and extranodal marginal zone B cell lymphoma of mucosa associated lymphoid tissue MALT type hairy cell leukemia plasma cell myeloma plasmacytoma follicular lymphoma mantle cell lymphoma MCL diffuse large cell B cell lymphoma transforming large B cell lymphoma mediastinal large B cell lymphoma intravascular large B cell lymphoma primary effusion lymphoma and non Burkitt s non Hodgkins lymphoma NHL .

Disorders characterized by autoantibody production are often considered autoimmune diseases. Autoimmune diseases include but are not limited to arthritis rheumatoid arthritis juvenile rheumatoid arthritis osteoarthritis polychondritis psoriatic arthritis psoriasis dermatitis polymyositis dermatomyositis inclusion body myositis inflammatory myositis toxic epidermal necrolysis systemic scleroderma and sclerosis CREST syndrome responses associated with inflammatory bowel disease Crohn s disease ulcerative colitis respiratory distress syndrome adult respiratory distress syndrome ARDS meningitis encephalitis uveitis colitis glomerulonephritis allergic conditions eczema asthma conditions involving infiltration of T cells and chronic inflammatory responses atherosclerosis autoimmune myocarditis leukocyte adhesion deficiency systemic lupus erythematosus SLE subacute cutaneous lupus erythematosus discoid lupus lupus myelitis lupus cerebritis juvenile onset diabetes multiple sclerosis allergic encephalomyelitis neuromyelitis optica rheumatic fever Sydenham s chorea immune responses associated with acute and delayed hypersensitivity mediated by cytokines and T lymphocytes tuberculosis sarcoidosis granulomatosis including Wegener s granulomatosis and Churg Strauss disease agranulocytosis vasculitis including hypersensitivity vasculitis angiitis ANCA and rheumatoid vasculitis aplastic anemia Diamond Blackfan anemia immune hemolytic anemia including autoimmune hemolytic anemia AIHA pernicious anemia pure red cell aplasia PRCA Factor VIII deficiency hemophilia A autoimmune neutropenia pancytopenia leukopenia diseases involving leukocyte diapedesis central nervous system CNS inflammatory disorders multiple organ injury syndrome myasthenia gravis antigen antibody complex mediated diseases anti glomerular basement membrane disease anti phospholipid antibody syndrome allergic neuritis Behcet disease Castleman s syndrome Goodpasture s syndrome Lambert Eaton Myasthenic Syndrome Reynaud s syndrome Sjorgen s syndrome Stevens Johnson syndrome solid organ transplant rejection graft versus host disease GVHD pemphigoid bullous pemphigus autoimmune polyendocrinopathies seronegative spondyloarthropathies Reiter s disease stiff man syndrome giant cell arteritis immune complex nephritis IgA nephropathy IgM polyneuropathies or IgM mediated neuropathy idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura ITP thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura TTP Henoch Schonlein purpura autoimmune thrombocytopenia autoimmune disease of the testis and ovary including autoimmune orchitis and oophoritis primary hypothyroidism autoimmune endocrine diseases including autoimmune thyroiditis chronic thyroiditis Hashimoto s Thyroiditis subacute thyroiditis idiopathic hypothyroidism Addison s disease Grave s disease autoimmune polyglandular syndromes or polyglandular endocrinopathy syndromes Type I diabetes also referred to as insulin dependent diabetes mellitus IDDM and Sheehan s syndrome autoimmune hepatitis lymphoid interstitial pneumonitis HIV bronchiolitis obliterans non transplant vs NSIP Guillain Barre Syndrome large vessel vasculitis including polymyalgia rheumatica and giant cell Takayasu s arteritis medium vessel vasculitis including Kawasaki s disease and polyarteritis nodosa polyarteritis nodosa PAN ankylosing spondylitis Berger s disease IgA nephropathy rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis primary biliary cirrhosis Celiac sprue gluten enteropathy cryoglobulinemia cryoglobulinemia associated with hepatitis amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ALS coronary artery disease familial Mediterranean fever microscopic polyangiitis Cogan s syndrome Whiskott Aldrich syndrome and thromboangiitis obliterans autoimmune thyroid disease such as Graves disease and Hashimoto s thyroiditis Sjogren s syndrome and idiopathic inflammatory myopathy IIM including dermatomyositis DM and polymyositis PM . The above autoimmune diseases may also be treated with humanized CD37 specific binding molecules or with the combination of CD37 specific binding molecules and a bifunctional chemotherapeutic.

In one aspect of the disclosure a humanized CD37 specific binding molecule or a combination of a CD37 specific binding molecule with a bifunctional chemotherapeutic is administered in a pharmaceutical composition. To administer a humanized CD37 specific binding molecule or a combination of a CD37 specific binding molecule with a bifunctional chemotherapeutic to human or test animals it is preferable to formulate the binding molecule or the combination in a composition comprising one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers. The phrase pharmaceutically or pharmacologically acceptable refer to molecular entities and compositions that do not produce allergic or other adverse reactions when administered using routes well known in the art as described below.

 Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers include any and all clinically useful solvents dispersion media coatings antibacterial and antifungal agents isotonic and absorption delaying agents and the like. In addition compounds may form solvates with water or common organic solvents. Such solvates are contemplated as well.

Pharmaceutical compositions of the present disclosure containing a humanized CD37 specific binding molecule or a combination of a CD37 specific binding molecule with a bifunctional chemotherapeutic used in a method of the disclosure may contain pharmaceutically acceptable carriers or additives depending on the route of administration. Examples of such carriers or additives include water a pharmaceutical acceptable organic solvent collagen polyvinyl alcohol polyvinylpyrrolidone a carboxyvinyl polymer carboxymethylcellulose sodium polyacrylic sodium sodium alginate water soluble dextran carboxymethyl starch sodium pectin methyl cellulose ethyl cellulose xanthan gum gum Arabic casein gelatin agar diglycerin glycerin propylene glycol polyethylene glycol Vaseline paraffin stearyl alcohol stearic acid human serum albumin HSA mannitol sorbitol lactose a pharmaceutically acceptable surfactant and the like. Additives used are chosen from but not limited to the above or combinations thereof as appropriate depending on the dosage form of the present disclosure.

Formulation of the pharmaceutical composition will vary according to the route of administration selected e.g. solution emulsion . An appropriate composition comprising the antibody to be administered can be prepared in a physiologically acceptable vehicle or carrier. For solutions or emulsions suitable carriers include for example aqueous or alcoholic aqueous solutions emulsions or suspensions including saline and buffered media. Parenteral vehicles can include sodium chloride solution Ringer s dextrose dextrose and sodium chloride lactated Ringer s or fixed oils. Intravenous vehicles can include various additives preservatives or fluid nutrient or electrolyte replenishers

A variety of aqueous carriers e.g. water buffered water 0.4 saline 0.3 glycine or aqueous suspensions may contain the active compound in admixture with excipients suitable for the manufacture of aqueous suspensions. Such excipients are suspending agents for example sodium carboxymethylcellulose methylcellulose hydroxypropylmethylcellulose sodium alginate polyvinylpyrrolidone gum tragacanth and gum acacia dispersing or wetting agents may be a naturally occurring phosphatide for example lecithin or condensation products of an alkylene oxide with fatty acids for example polyoxyethylene stearate or condensation products of ethylene oxide with long chain aliphatic alcohols for example heptadecaethyl eneoxycetanol or condensation products of ethylene oxide with partial esters derived from fatty acids and a hexitol such as polyoxyethylene sorbitol monooleate or condensation products of ethylene oxide with partial esters derived from fatty acids and hexitol anhydrides for example polyethylene sorbitan monooleate. The aqueous suspensions may also contain one or more preservatives for example ethyl or n propyl p hydroxybenzoate.

A CD37 specific binding molecule a combination of a CD37 specific binding molecule with a bifunctional chemotherapeutic or a composition comprising the binding molecule or the combination can be lyophilized for storage and reconstituted in a suitable carrier prior to use. This technique has been shown to be effective with conventional immunoglobulins. Any suitable lyophilization and reconstitution techniques can be employed. It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that lyophilization and reconstitution can lead to varying degrees of activity loss and that use levels may have to be adjusted to compensate.

Dispersible powders and granules suitable for preparation of an aqueous suspension by the addition of water provide the active compound in admixture with a dispersing or wetting agent suspending agent and one or more preservatives. Suitable dispersing or wetting agents and suspending agents are exemplified by those already mentioned above.

The concentration of CD37 specific binding molecule or bifunctional chemotherapeutic in these formulations can vary widely for example from less than about 0.5 usually at or at least about 1 to as much as 15 or 20 by weight and will be selected primarily based on fluid volumes viscosities etc. in accordance with the particular mode of administration selected. Thus a typical pharmaceutical composition for parenteral injection could be made up to contain 1 mL sterile buffered water and 50 mg of antibody. A typical composition for intravenous infusion could be made up to contain 250 mL of sterile Ringer s solution and 150 mg of antibody. Actual methods for preparing parenterally administrable compositions will be known or apparent to those skilled in the art and are described in more detail in for example Remington s Pharmaceutical Science 15th ed. Mack Publishing Company Easton Pa. 1980 . An effective dosage of CD37 specific binding molecules including humanized CD37 specific binding molecules is within the range of 0.01 mg to 1000 mg per kg of body weight per administration.

The pharmaceutical compositions may be in the form of a sterile injectable aqueous oleaginous suspension dispersions or sterile powders for the extemporaneous preparation of sterile injectable solutions or dispersions. The suspension may be formulated according to the known art using those suitable dispersing or wetting agents and suspending agents which have been mentioned above. The sterile injectable preparation may also be a sterile injectable solution or suspension in a non toxic parenterally acceptable diluent or solvent for example as a solution in 1 3 butane diol. The carrier can be a solvent or dispersion medium containing for example water ethanol polyol for example glycerol propylene glycol and liquid polyethylene glycol and the like suitable mixtures thereof vegetable oils Ringer s solution and isotonic sodium chloride solution. In addition sterile fixed oils are conventionally employed as a solvent or suspending medium. For this purpose any bland fixed oil may be employed including synthetic mono or diglycerides. In addition fatty acids such as oleic acid find use in the preparation of injectables.

In all cases the form must be sterile and must be fluid to the extent that easy syringability exists. The proper fluidity can be maintained for example by the use of a coating such as lecithin by the maintenance of the required particle size in the case of dispersion and by the use of surfactants. It must be stable under the conditions of manufacture and storage and must be preserved against the contaminating action of microorganisms such as bacteria and fungi. The prevention of the action of microorganisms can be brought about by various antibacterial or antifungal agents for example parabens chlorobutanol phenol sorbic acid thimerosal or the like. In many cases it will be desirable to include isotonic agents for example sugars or sodium chloride. Prolonged absorption of the injectable compositions can be brought about by the use in the compositions of agents delaying absorption for example aluminum monostearate and gelatin.

Compositions useful for administration may be formulated with uptake or absorption enhancers to increase their efficacy. Such enhancers include for example salicylate glycocholate linoleate glycholate aprotinin bacitracin SDS caprate and the like. See e.g. Fix J. Pharm. Sci. 85 1282 1285 1996 and Oliyai and Stella Ann. Rev. Pharmacol. Toxicol. 32 521 544 1993 .

In addition the properties of hydrophilicity and hydrophobicity of the compositions contemplated for use in the disclosure are well balanced thereby enhancing their utility for both in vitro and especially in vivo uses while other compositions lacking such balance are of substantially less utility. Specifically compositions contemplated for use in the disclosure have an appropriate degree of solubility in aqueous media which permits absorption and bioavailability in the body while also having a degree of solubility in lipids which permits the compounds to traverse the cell membrane to a putative site of action. Thus antibody compositions contemplated are maximally effective when they can be delivered to the site of target antigen activity.

In one aspect methods of the disclosure include a step of administration of a CD37 specific binding molecule composition. In certain embodiments the combinations of compounds may be administered concurrently together in the same pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or separately but concurrently . In other embodiments the CD37 immunotherapeutic i.e. the CD37 specific binding molecule and a bifunctional chemotherapeutic can be administered sequentially in any order and in any combination.

The binding molecule bifunctional chemotherapeutic or combination compositions may be administered orally topically transdermally parenterally by inhalation spray vaginally rectally or by intracranial injection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment both the CD37 specific binding molecule and the bifunctional chemotherapeutic are administered parenterally either concurrently or sequentially. The term parenteral as used herein includes subcutaneous injections intravenous intramuscular intracisternal injection or infusion techniques. Administration by intravenous intradermal intramusclar intramammary intraperitoneal intrathecal retrobulbar intrapulmonary injection and or surgical implantation at a particular site is contemplated as well. Generally compositions are essentially free of pyrogens as well as other impurities that could be harmful to the recipient. Injection especially intravenous is preferred.

In one embodiment administration is performed at the site of a cancer or affected tissue needing treatment by direct injection into the site or via a sustained delivery or sustained release mechanism which can deliver the formulation internally. For example biodegradable microspheres or capsules or other biodegradable polymer configurations capable of sustained delivery of a composition e.g. a soluble polypeptide antibody or small molecule can be included in the formulations of the disclosure implanted near the cancer.

Therapeutic compositions may also be delivered to the patient at multiple sites. The multiple administrations may be rendered simultaneously or may be administered over a period of time. In certain cases it is beneficial to provide a continuous flow of the therapeutic composition. Additional therapy may be administered on a period basis for example hourly daily weekly or monthly.

Binding molecule bifunctional chemotherapeutic or combination compositions of this disclosure may comprise one or more than one binding molecule bifunctional chemotherapeutic or any combination thereof. Also contemplated by the present disclosure is the administration of binding molecule bifunctional chemotherapeutic or combination compositions in conjunction with a further therapeutic agent. Further therapeutic contemplated by the disclosure are listed in paragraphs below.

A further therapeutic agent may be a B cell associated molecule. Other B cell associated molecules contemplated by the disclosure include binding molecules which bind to B cell surface molecules that are not CD37. B cell associated molecules include CD19 B lymphocyte antigen CD19 also referred to as B lymphocyte surface antigen B4 or Leu 12 CD20 CD21 CD22 B cell receptor CD22 also referred to as Leu 14 B lymphocyte cell adhesion molecule or BL CAM CD23 CD40 B cell surface antigen CD40 also referred to as Tumor Necrosis Factor receptor superfamily member 5 CD40L receptor or Bp50 CD80 T lymphocyte activation antigen CD80 also referred to as Activation B7 1 antigen B7 B7 1 or BB1 CD86 T lymphocyte activation antigen CD86 also referred to as Activation B7 2 antigen B70 FUN 1 or BU63 CD137 also referred to as Tumor Necrosis Factor receptor superfamily member 9 CD152 also referred to as cytotoxic T lymphocyte protein 4 or CTLA 4 L6 Tumor associated antigen L6 also referred to as Transmembrane 4 superfamily member 1 Membrane component surface marker 1 or M3S1 CD30 lymphocyte activation antigen CD30 also referred to as Tumor Necrosis Factor receptor superfamily member 8 CD30L receptor or Ki 1 CD50 also referred to as Intercellular adhesion molecule 3 ICAM3 or ICAM R CD54 also referred to as Intercellular adhesion molecule 1 ICAM1 or Major group rhinovirus receptor B7 H1 ligand for an immunoinhibitory receptor expressed by activated T cells B cells and myeloid cells also referred to as PD L1 see Dong et al. B7 H1 a third member of the B7 family co stimulates T cell proliferation and interleukin 10 secretion Nat. Med. 5 1365 1369 1999 CD134 also referred to as Tumor Necrosis Factor receptor superfamily member 4 OX40 OX40L receptor ACT35 antigen or TAX transcriptionally activated glycoprotein 1 receptor 41 BB 4 1 BB ligand receptor T cell antigen 4 1 BB or T cell antigen ILA CD153 also referred to as Tumor Necrosis Factor ligand superfamily member 8 CD30 ligand or CD30 L CD154 also referred to as Tumor Necrosis Factor ligand superfamily member 5 TNF related activation protein TRAP or T cell antigen Gp39 Toll receptors or the like.

Examples of chemotherapeutic agents contemplated as further therapeutic agents include alkylating agents such as nitrogen mustards e.g. mechlorethamine cyclophosphamide ifosfamide melphalan and chlorambucil nitrosoureas e.g. carmustine BCNU lomustine CCNU and semustine methyl CCNU ethyleneimines and methyl melamines e.g. triethylenemelamine TEM triethylene thiophosphoramide thiotepa and hexamethylmelamine HMM altretamine alkyl sulfonates e.g. buslfan and triazines e.g. dacabazine DTIC antimetabolites such as folic acid analogues e.g. methotrexate trimetrexate and pemetrexed multi targeted antifolate pyrimidine analogues such as 5 fluorouracil 5 FU fluorodeoxyuridine gemcitabine cytosine arabinoside AraC cytarabine 5 azacytidine and 2 2 difluorodeoxycytidine and purine analogues e.g 6 mercaptopurine 6 thioguanine azathioprine 2 deoxycoformycin pentostatin erythrohydroxynonyladenine EHNA fludarabine phosphate 2 chlorodeoxyadenosine cladribine 2 CdA Type I topoisomerase inhibitors such as camptothecin CPT topotecan and irinotecan natural products such as epipodophylotoxins e.g. etoposide and teniposide and vinca alkaloids e.g. vinblastine vincristine and vinorelbine anti tumor antibiotics such as actinomycin D doxorubicin and bleomycin radiosensitizers such as 5 bromodeozyuridine 5 iododeoxyuridine and bromodeoxycytidine platinum coordination complexes such as cisplatin carboplatin and oxaliplatin substituted ureas such as hydroxyurea and methylhydrazine derivatives such as N methylhydrazine MIH and procarbazine.

Further therapeutic agents contemplated by this disclosure for treatment of autoimmune diseases are referred to as immunosuppressive agents which act to suppress or mask the immune system of the individual being treated. Immunosuppressive agents include for example non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs NSAIDs analgesics glucocorticoids disease modifying antirheumatic drugs DMARDs for the treatment of arthritis or biologic response modifiers. Compositions in the DMARD description are also useful in the treatment of many other autoimmune diseases aside from RA.

Exemplary NSAIDs are chosen from the group consisting of ibuprofen naproxen naproxen sodium Cox 2 inhibitors such as VIOXX rofecoxib and CELEBREX celecoxib and sialylates. Exemplary analgesics are chosen from the group consisting of acetaminophen oxycodone tramadol of proporxyphene hydrochloride. Exemplary glucocorticoids are chosen from the group consisting of cortisone dexamethasone hydrocortisone methylprednisolone prednisolone or prednisone. Exemplary biological response modifiers include molecules directed against cell surface markers e.g. CD4 CD5 etc. cytokine inhibitors such as the TNF antagonists e.g. etanercept ENBREL adalimumab HUMIRA and infliximab REMICADE chemokine inhibitors and adhesion molecule inhibitors. The biological response modifiers include monoclonal antibodies as well as recombinant forms of molecules. Exemplary DMARDs include azathioprine cyclophosphamide cyclosporine methotrexate penicillamine leflunomide sulfasalazine hydroxychloroquine Gold oral auranofin and intramuscular and minocycline.

It is contemplated the binding molecule composition and the further therapeutic agent may be given simultaneously in the same formulation. Alternatively the agents are administered in a separate formulation but concurrently with concurrently referring to agents given for example within minutes hours or days of each other.

In another aspect the further therapeutic agent is administered prior to administration of the binding molecule bifunctional chemotherapeutic or combination composition. Prior administration refers to administration of the further therapeutic agent within the range of minutes hours or one week prior to treatment with the binding molecule bifunctional chemotherapeutic or combination composition. It is further contemplated that the further therapeutic agent is administered subsequent to administration of the binding molecule composition. Subsequent administration is meant to describe administration more than minutes hours or weeks after binding molecule bifunctional chemotherapeutic or combination composition treatment or administration.

It is further contemplated that when the binding molecule is administered in combination with a further therapeutic agent wherein the further therapeutic agent is a cytokine or growth factor or a chemotherapeutic agent the administration may also include use of a radiotherapeutic agent or radiation therapy. The radiation therapy administered in combination with an antibody composition is administered as determined by the treating physician and at doses typically given to patients being treated for cancer.

These compositions may be administered in a single dose or in multiple doses. Standard dose response studies first in animal models and then in clinical testing reveal optimal dosages for particular disease states and patient populations.

The administration of the binding molecule bifunctional chemotherapeutic or combination composition decreases the B cell population by at least 20 after a single dose of treatment. In one embodiment the B cell population is decreased by at least about 20 about 30 about 40 about 50 about 60 about 70 about 80 about 90 or about 100 . B cell reduction is defined as a decrease in absolute B cell count below the lower limit of the normal range. B cell recovery is defined as a return of absolute B cell count to for example 70 80 90 of a subject s baseline value or normal range. Further the administration of binding molecule bifunctional chemotherapeutic or combination composition of this disclosure results in desired clinical effects in the disease or disorder being treated.

In some embodiments patients suffering from a disease associated with aberrant B cell activity who receive treatment according to the disclosure may demonstrate an overall beneficial response to the treatment based on clinical criteria well known and commonly used in the art and as described below.

For example in patients affected by rheumatoid arthritis the administration may improve the patient s condition by a clinically significant amount e.g. achieves the American College of Rheumatology Preliminary Detection of Improvement ACR20 and or an improvement of 20 in tender and swollen joint and 20 improvement in remaining ACR measures Felson et al. 1995 38 727 35 . Biological measures for improvement in an RA patient after administration of CD37 specific and CD20 specific binding molecules include measurement of changes in cytokine levels measured via protein or RNA levels. Cytokines of interest include but are not limited to TNF IL 1 interferons Blys and APRIL. Cytokine changes may be due to reduced B cell numbers or decreased activated T cells. In RA patients markers relevant to bone turnover bone resorption or erosion are measured before and after administration of CD20 specific binding molecules. Relevant markers include but are not limited to alkaline phosphatase osteocalcin collagen breakdown fragments hydroxyproline tartrate resistant acid phosphatase and RANK ligand RANKL . Other readouts relevant to the improvement of RA include measurement of C reactive protein CRP levels erythrocyte sedimentation rate ESR rheumatoid factor CCP cyclic citrullinated peptide antibodies and assessment of systemic B cell levels and lymphocyte count via flow cytometry. Specific factors can also be measured from the synovium of RA patients including assessment of B cell levels in synovium from synovium biopsy levels of RANKL and other bone factors and cytokines set out above.

In a related aspect the effects of combination administration on other diseases may be measured according to standards known in the art. For example it is contemplated that Crohn s disease patients treated according to the invention achieve an improvement in Crohn s Disease Activity Index CDAI in the range of about 50 to about 70 units wherein remission is at 150 units Simonis et al 1998 33 283 8 . A score of 150 or 200 is considered normal while a score of 450 is considered a severe disease score. It is further desired that administration of the CD37 specific and CD20 specific binding molecules results in a reduction in perinuclear anti neutrophil antibody pANCA and anti antibody ASCA in individuals affected by inflammatory bowel disease.

It is further contemplated that adult and juvenile myositis patients treated according to the disclosure may achieve an improvement in core set of evaluations such as 3 out of 6 of the core set measured improved by approximately 20 with not more than 2 of the core measurements worse by approximately 25 see Rider et al. 2004 50 2281 90 .

It is further contemplated that SLE patients treated according to the disclosure may achieve an improvement in Systemic Lupus Activity Measure SLAM or SLE Disease Activity Index SLEDAI score of at least 1 point Gladman et al 1994 21 1468 71 Tan et al. Arthritis Rheum. 1982 25 1271 7 . A SLAM score of 5 or SLEDAI score 2 is considered clinically active disease. A response to treatment may be defined as improvement or stabilization over the in 2 disease activity measures the SLE Disease Activity Index SLEDAI and the Systemic Lupus Activity Measure and 2 quality of life measures patient s global assessment and the Krupp Fatigue Severity Scale Petri et al. 2004 50 2858 68. It is further contemplated that administration of the binding molecule to SLE patients results in a reduction in anti double stranded DNA antibodies. Alternatively improvement may be gauged using the British Isles Lupus Assessment Group Criteria BILAG .

It is further contemplated that multiple sclerosis patients treated according to the disclosure may achieve an improvement in clinical score on the Kurtzke Expanded Disability status scale EDSS Kurtzke F. 1983 33 1444 52 of at least 0.5 or a delay in worsening of clinical disease of at least 1.0 on the Kurtzke scale Rudick et al. Neurology 1997 49 358 63 .

It is further contemplated that patients suffering from IIM treated according to the disclosure may achieve a reduction in at least one of five criteria set out in the Idiopathic Inflammatory Myopathy Criteria IIMC assessment Miller F. supra . It is further contemplated that administration to IIM patients may result in a reduction in IIM associated factors selected from the group consisting of creatine kinase CK lactate dehydrogenase aldolase C reactive protein aspartate aminotransferase AST alanine aminotransferase ALT and antinuclear autoantibody ANA myositis specific antibodies MSA and antibody to extractable nuclear antigens. Alternatively patients meet 3 out of 6 of the criteria set out in Rider et al. Arthritis Rheum. 50 7 2281 2290 2004 with worsening in no more than 2 criteria.

In some embodiments patients suffering from a B cell cancer that receive treatment according to the disclose may demonstrate an overall beneficial response to the treatment based on clinical criteria well known and commonly used in the art and as described below such as a decrease in tumor size decrease in tumor number and or an improvement in disease symptoms.

Exemplary clinical criteria are provided by the U.S. National Cancer Institute NCI which has divided some of the classes of cancers into the clinical categories of indolent and aggressive lymphomas. Indolent lymphomas include follicular cell lymphomas separated into cytology grades diffuse small lymphocytic lymphoma chronic lymphocytic leukemia CLL lymphoplasmacytoid Waldenstrom s Macroglobulinemia Marginal zone lymphoma and Hairy cell leukemia. Aggressive lymphomas include diffuse mixed and large cell lymphoma Burkitt s lymphoma diffuse small non cleaved cell lymphoma Lymphoblastic lymphoma Mantle cell lymphoma and AIDS related lymphoma. In some cases the International Prognostic Index IPI is used in cases of aggressive and follicular lymphoma. Factors to consider in the IPI include age 60 years of age serum lactate dehydrogenase levels normal versus elevated performance status 0 or 1 versus 2 4 see definition below disease stage I or II versus III or IV and extranodal site involvement 0 or 1 versus 2 4 . Patients with 2 or more risk factors have less than a 50 chance of relapse free and overall survival at 5 years.

Performance status in the aggressive IPI is defined as follows Grade Description 0 Fully active able to carry on all pre disease performance without restriction 1 Restricted in physically strenuous activity but ambulatory and able to carry out work of a light or sedentary nature e.g. light house work office work 2 Ambulatory and capable of all selfcare but unable to carry out any work activities up to and about more than 50 of waking hours 3 Capable of only limited selfcare confined to bed or chair more than 50 of waking hours 4 Completely disabled unable to carry on any selfcare totally confined to bed or chair and 5 Dead. See The International Non Hodgkin s Lymphoma Prognostic Factors Project. A predictive model for aggressive non Hodgkin s lymphoma. 329 987 94 1993. 

Typically the grade of lymphoma is clinically assessed using the criterion that low grade lymphoma usually presents as a nodal disease and is often indolent or slow growing. Intermediate and high grade disease usually presents as a much more aggressive disease with large extranodal bulky tumors.

The Ann Arbor classification system is also used to measure progression of tumors especially non Hodgkin s lymphomas. In this system stages I II III and IV of adult NHL can be classified into A and B categories depending on whether the patient has well defined generalized symptoms B or not A . The B designation is given to patients with the following symptoms unexplained loss of more than 10 body weight in the 6 months prior to diagnosis unexplained fever with temperatures above 38 C. and drenching night sweats. Definitions of the stages are as follows Stage I involvement of a single lymph node region or localized involvement of a single extralymphatic organ or site. Stage II involvement of two or more lymph node regions on the same side of the diaphragm or localized involvement of a single associated extralymphatic organ or site and its regional lymph nodes with or without other lymph node regions on the same side of the diaphragm. Stage III involvement of lymph node regions on both sides of the diaphragm possibly accompanying localized involvement of an extralymphatic organ or site involvement of the spleen or both. Stage IV disseminated multifocal involvement of one or more extralymphatic sites with or without associated lymph node involvement or isolated extralymphatic organ involvement with distant non regional nodal involvement. For further details see The International Non Hodgkin s Lymphoma Prognostic Factors Project A predictive model for aggressive non Hodgkin s lymphoma New England J. Med. 1993 329 987 994.

In one aspect a therapeutic effect of the methods according to the disclosure is determined by the level of response for example a partial response is defined as tumor reduction to less than one half of its original size. A complete response is defined as total elimination of disease confirmed by clinical or radiological evaluation. In one embodiment the individual receiving treatment according to the invention demonstrates at least a partial response to treatment.

According to the Cheson criteria for assessing NHL developed in collaboration with the National Cancer Institute Cheson et al. 1999 17 1244 Grillo Lopez et al. 2000 11 399 408 a complete response is obtained when there is a complete disappearance of all detectable clinical and radiographic evidence of disease and disease related symptoms all lymph nodes have returned to normal size the spleen has regressed in size and the bone marrow is cleared of lymphoma.

An unconfirmed complete response is obtained when a patient shows complete disappearance of the disease and the spleen regresses in size but lymph nodes have regressed by more than 75 and the bone marrow is indeterminate. An unconfirmed complete response meets and exceeds the criteria for partial response. An overall response is defined as a reduction of at least 50 percent in overall tumor burden.

Similar criteria have been developed for various other forms of cancers or hyperproliferative diseases and are readily available to a person of skill in the art. See e.g. Cheson et al. 2006 4 4 5 which describes criteria for assessing CLL Cheson et al. 2003 21 4642 9 which describes criteria for AML Cheson et al. 2000 96 3671 4 which describes criteria for myelodysplastic syndromes.

In another aspect a therapeutic response in patients having a B cell cancer is manifest as a slowing of disease progression compared to patients not receiving therapy. Measurement of slowed disease progression or any of the above factors may be carried out using techniques well known in the art including bone scan CT scan gallium scan lymphangiogram MRI PET scans ultrasound and the like.

As an additional aspect the disclosure includes kits which comprise one or more compounds or compositions useful in the methods of this disclosure packaged in a manner which facilitates their use to practice methods of the disclosure. In a simplest embodiment such a kit includes a compound or composition described herein as useful for practice of a method of the disclosure packaged in a container such as a sealed bottle or vessel with a label affixed to the container or included in the package that describes use of the compound or composition to practice the method of the disclosure. Preferably the compound or composition is packaged in a unit dosage form. The kit may further include a device suitable for administering the composition according to a preferred route of administration or for practicing a screening assay. The kit may include a label that describes use of the binding molecule composition s in a method of the disclosure.

Various CD37 specific binding proteins can be made with exemplary components provided in Tables 2 4. For example antibodies or SMIP molecules can be made and these molecules can be chimeric humanized or human. More specifically preferred light chain variable region CDRs are found in SEQ ID NOS 236 240 and 247 254 and preferred heaving chain variable domain CDRs include SEQ ID NOS 241 245 and 247 254. Also preferred light and heavy chain variable regions are provided in SEQ ID NOS 236 240 and SEQ ID NOS 241 245 respectively. Preferred light and heavy chain variable regions may also be found in SEQ ID NOS 247 254. Preferred variable domain linkers include SEQ ID NOS 225 229 while preferred hinges include SEQ ID NOS 230 235.

A particularly preferred embodiment is CAS 024 G28 1 VH M99F Y102S VL T25A scFv SSC P H WCH2 WCH3 which is a recombinant 483 amino acid single chain fusion protein that binds to human CD37. The binding domain comprises a humanized scFv based on the G28 1 antibody variable region CDRs including mutations in the heavy chain CDR3 and in the light chain CDR1. The variable domains are linked by a GS 25 amino acid sequence SEQ ID NO 229 which is connected via a three amino acid junction GDQ to the amino terminus of a modified upper and core IgG1 hinge region wherein the first two of three cysteines found in these hinge regions are each substituted with a serine . The carboxy terminus of the hinge is fused to an effector domain comprising CH2 and CH3 domains of IgG. The amino acid sequence of CAS 024 is set out in SEQ ID NO 253. shows heavy and light chain variable region amino acid sequence alignments of mouse G28.1 and CAS 024 sequences along with a consensus identity sequence.

Additional hinge regions that may be used in CD 37 specific binding molecules such as SMIP molecules or antibodies are provided in the following table.

Additional framework regions that may be used in CD 37 specific binding molecules such as SMIP molecules or antibodies are provided in the following tables.

Preferred exemplary component parts of CD 37 specific SMIP molecules including leader sequences used for expression and export but which are removed from the mature fusion protein when exported from a cell linker sequences used to join light and heavy chain variable domains to form scFv binding domains hinges used to join scFv binding domains to effector domains and effector domains as well as certain CD 37 specific SMIP molecules including the preferred CAS 024 fusion protein are provided in Table 4.

CAS 024 and other CD37 specific binding SMIP molecules were cloned into a Chinese Hamster Ovary CHO mammalian cell expression system. Transfected CHO cells that produced the SMIP molecules were cultured in shake flasks and harvested cell culture supernatants were titered using Octec Q Protein A sensor.

Table 5 shows that the CAS 024 construct VHVL format with 25 amino acid variable domain linker had an unexpectedly superior expression level up to about 10 fold better than the other humanized anti CD37 SMIP molecules mostly VLVH format with 15 amino acid variable domain linker . Indeed all fully humanized VLVH constructs expressed poorly data not shown as did mouse human hybrid molecules in either orientation see Example 5 .

To produce more protein nucleic acid encoding CAS 024 and several other CD37 specific binding SMIP molecules were cloned into a Chinese Hamster Ovary CHO mammalian cell expression system. Transfected CHO cells that produced the SMIP molecules were cultured in shake flasks.

All of the CD37 specific binding SMIP molecules were purified from CHO culture supernatants by Protein A affinity chromatography. A 50 mL rProtein A FF sepharose column GE Healthcare was equilibrated at 5.0 mls min 150 cm hr for 1.5 column volumes CV with dPBS. The culture supernatant was loaded onto the rProtein A Sepharose FF column at a flow rate of 1.7 mls min using the AKTA Explorer 100 Air GE healthcare capturing the recombinant SMIP molecules. The column was washed with dPBS for 5 Column Volumes CV then 1.0 M NaCl 20 mM Sodium Phosphate pH 6.0 and then with 25 mM NaCl 25 mM NaOAc pH 5.0. The recombinant CD37 specific binding molecules were eluted from the column with 100 mM glycine pH 3.5. Fractions 10 mL of the eluted product were recovered and then brought to pH 5.0 with 20 of the eluted volume of 0.5 M 2 N morpholino ethanesulfonic acid MES pH6.0. This eluted product was concentrated to approximately 25 mg mL protein and filter sterilized.

This concentrated and sterilized protein was further purified by GPC size exclusion chromatography SEC to achieve separate SMIP dimer molecule from higher molecular weight aggregates. An XK 50 100 column GE healthcare containing 1 L of Superdex 200 FF sepharose was equilibrated at 12.6 ml min 38 cm hr for 1.5 column volumes CV with dPBS. A maximum volume of 54 mls 3 CV of sample was applied to the column. The column continued to run at 12.6 ml min and the eluted protein was fractionated in 40 mL fractions. Each fraction was analyzed for product quality using an analytic HPLC and the eluted fractions were pooled to greater than about 95 protein of interest non aggregated . The resultant pool was filter sterilized at 0.22 m concentrated and then formulated with 20 mM sodium phosphate 240 mM sucrose pH 6.0.

The SEC traces showing the peaks containing the protein of interest POI for CAS 001 SEQ ID NO 6 CAS 002 SEQ ID NO 48 CAS 003 SEQ ID NO 52 and CAS 024 SEQ ID NO 253 are shown in respectively. The CAS 024 peak is narrower and more symmetric than the CAS 001 CAS 002 and CAS 003 samples broader and asymmetric . The CAS 006 chimeric molecule produces a sharp peak similar to CAS 024. The CAS 001 CAS 002 and CAS 003 samples all had a slight tailing shoulder which if integrated accounts for about 35 of the POI area. This shoulder would be difficult to separate from the POI and probably represents either misfolded conformers or a heterogenous population of molecules e.g. have different levels of glycosylation . This indicates that CAS 024 was not only expressed better but this construct also produces a more homogenous population of molecules.

A competition assay was used to compare the binding affinity of different anti CD37 specific small modular immunopharmaceutical SMIP molecules to CD 37 found on Ramos cells a B lymphoblastoid cell line derived from a Burkitt lymphoma . An SEC purified chimeric anti CD37 SMIP molecule CAS 006 SEQ ID NO 247 was labeled with the FMAT Blue fluorescence dye Applied Biosystems and used as the standard to compete with purified unlabeled chimeric anti CD37 SMIP molecule positive control and purified unlabeled humanized anti CD37 SMIP test molecules. Higher affinity showed up as a weaker fluorescence signal and an FL1 fluorescence value was used to generate the competition curve. Briefly the reagent FMAT Blue labeled chimeric anti CD37 SMIP molecule was diluted to 2 g ml in FACS blocking buffer and the purified protein samples CAS 001 SEQ ID NO 6 CAS 002 SEQ ID NO 48 CAS 003 SEQ ID NO 52 and CAS 024 SEQ ID NO 253 were serially diluted 1 2 to concentrations ranging from 50 g ml to 0.02 g ml. Ramos cells were harvested at 1 000 rpm for 5 minutes and resuspend in FACS blocking buffer at 4 10cells 10 ml buffer. To each well of a black 96 well plate the following was added 50 l sample 50 l FMAT Blue labeled chimeric anti CD37 SMIP molecule and 50 l Ramos cells 4 10 well . The plates were incubated at room temperature for 30 min and read on an 8200 Cellular Detection System Applied Biosystems gated for middle cell size and low signal.

This FMAT competition assay showed that CAS 024 humanized anti CD37 SMIP molecule having a VHVL scFv with a 25 amino acid variable domain linker has the same affinity for CD37 as the parent chimeric anti CD37 SMIP molecule and in contrast has an unexpectedly up to a 4 fold greater affinity for CD37 than the humanized anti CD37 SMIP molecules having the reverse VLVH structure and a shorter 16 amino acid variable domain linker see . The best binding although still significantly less than CAS 006 or CAS 024 was found in a VLVH construct that does not have any CDR mutations CAS 001 . However CAS 001 was consistently the worst expressing construct and produced a non homogenous population of purified molecules even for this construct CAS 024 bound from 1.5 to 2 fold better than CAS 001.

This result was also surprising because M99 and Y102 in the heavy chain CDR3 of CAS 024 are mutated the Y102 position is generally conserved and it would be expected that a change at this position alone would diminish or even abolish binding e.g. CAS 062 mutated at position Y102 has detectable but severely decreased binding compared to CAS 001 or CAS 024 while CAS 063 to CAS 067 each have barely detectable to no binding activity in this assay when a mutation at position M99 or D101 is added data not shown . Thus the structure of CAS 024 provided a molecule that surprisingly bound as well as the chimeric molecule CAS 006.

CAS 024 and other CD37 specific binding SMIP molecules were produced by recombinant DNA technology and transfected into HEK293 cells for 7 days. Cell culture supernatants were harvested on day 7 and titered using Octec Q Protein A sensor.

Similar to the results found in Example 2 here Table 6 shows that CAS 024 VHVL format with 25 amino acid variable domain linker expressed from about 5 fold to about 27 fold better than the other humanized or mouse human hybrid anti CD37 SMIP molecules. The mouse human hybrid molecules did not express well regardless of the VHVL or VLVH orientation.

A competition assay as described in Example 4 was used to compare the binding affinity of different mouse human hybrid anti CD37 SMIP molecules compared to CAS 024 binding to Ramos cells. An SEC purified chimeric anti CD37 SMIP molecule CAS 006 SEQ ID NO 247 was labeled with the FMAT Blue fluorescence dye Applied Biosystems and used as the standard to compete with purified unlabeled chimeric anti CD37 SMIP molecule CAS 006 positive control and purified unlabeled humanized anti CD37 SMIP test molecules CAS 002 SEQ ID NO 48 CAS 003 SEQ ID NO 52 CAS 014 SEQ ID NO 251 CAS 017 SEQ ID NO 252 and CAS 024 SEQ ID NO 253 .

This FMAT competition assay again showed that CAS 024 VHVL humanized molecule with a 25 amino acid linker has the same affinity for CD37 as the parent chimeric anti CD37 SMIP molecule CAS 006 whereas CAS 002 and CAS 003 VLVH humanized molecules with a 16 amino acid linker did not bind as well showing a 2 to 3 fold reduction see . The mouse human hybrid molecules regardless of variable domain orientation mouseVH humanizedVL with a 22 amino acid linker or humanizedVL mouseVH with a 16 amino acid linker bound as well as or even better than 1.5 to 2 fold CAS 006 and CAS 024 see . These data show that a mouse human hybrid molecule without mutations binds as well as or better than CAS 006 regardless of orientation and that a fully humanized VLVH construct with no CDR mutations binds better than other humanized molecules but still has diminished binding compared to CAS 006 or CAS 024. Together these data suggest that no mutations in CDRs for this molecule would be better binders. Also the particular order VLVH or VHVL did not seem to solve the expression problem even when a longer variable domain linker is used see CAS 014 . Thus it was unpredictable to select a molecule with the CAS 024 structure and properties similar to the parent molecule CAS 006.

Experiments were performed to identify the CD37 epitope bound by CAS 006 and other previously described CD37 specific antibodies. Unconjugated MB371 555457 and FITC conjugated MB371 555456 were obtained from BD Pharmingen San Jose Calif. FITC conjugated BL14 0457 from Immunotech Beckman Coulter Fullerton Calif. FITC conjugated NMN46 RDI CBL 136FT and unconjugated NMN46 RDI CBL 136 from RDI Flanders N.J. FITC conjugated IPO24 186 040 and unconjugated IPO 24 186 020 from Ancell Corporation Bayport Minn. FITC conjugated HHI 3081 and unconjugated HH1 3080 from DiaTec.Com Oslo Norway and FITC conjugated WR17 YSRTMCA483F and unconjugated WR17 YSRTMCA483S from Accurate Chemical Scientific Westbury N.Y. . CAS 006 SMIP protein was produced as described in Example 2.

CAS 006 was conjugated to FITC using a Molecular Probes Fluororeporter FITC Labeling Kit F6434 according to manufacturer s instructions as follows CAS 006 protein peak of interest POI at 13.5 mg mL was adjusted to 5 mg mL with PBS. One mg 200 ul was added to kit tubes with a stirbar and 1M NaHCO adjusted to pH 8.5 with 6N NaOH was added to a final concentration of 0.1M. 50 ul DMSO was added to 370 ug of FITC and was added to the tubes at molar ratios of 15 20 30 and 40 FITC protein using the following formula to determine the ul of FITC to add l of FITC solution to add 5 mg mL protein 0.2 mL 389 100 desired molar ratio Molecular weight of CAS 006 110 000 .

Reactions were shielded from light and stirred continuously for 75 minutes at room temperature. Reactions were added to spin columns prepared as described in the kit and spun at 1100 g for 5 minutes to buffer exchange into PBS with azide and remove unconjugated FITC. The OD at 280 nM and 494 nM was determined with 2 ul drops on the Nanodrop the extinction coefficient for CAS 016 was experimentally determined for this instrument by reading dilutions of the starting unconjugated SMIP molecule the concentration of each of the conjugates was 4.25 mg ml and the following FITC protein rations were determined 2.7 FITC CAS 016 at a ratio of 15 3.7 FITC CAS 016 at a ratio of 20 4.4 FITC CAS 016 at a ratio of 30 and 5.1 FITC CAS 016 at a ratio of 40.

BSA was added to 3 mg mL to help stabilize the protein. Binding of each fraction was assessed at dilutions ranging from 100 24 300 on Ramos and 3200 25 600 on human PBMC. All bound but the MR30 ratio was chosen for further use since it gave a high MFI that was well maintained over the titration range used indicating that binding avidity was least affected in this reaction.

FITC labeled antibody conjugates were titrated from 10 ng mL to 10 g mL in an initial binding study to determine the optimal amount to use in the blocking studies. The level chosen was just below saturating amounts and was kept constant in the subsequent assays while levels of blocking antibody were increased over a 10 fold range. Data were plotted as percent of maximal binding versus concentration of blocking antibody so that higher levels indicate less efficient blocking while lower levels indicate more efficient blocking activity. All of the antibodies tested showed blocking activity of the maximal binding observed without unlabeled reagents .

BJAB cells a lymphoblastoid B cell line were then stained with a panel of various clones of anti CD37 mAbs including MB371 BL14 NMN46 IPO24 HH1 WR17 and chimeric CAS 006 SMIP.

For competitive binding assays 2.5 10BJAB cells were incubated in 96 well V bottom plates in staining media PBS with 2 mouse sera with the FITC conjugated anti CD37 mAbs at 1.25 g mL in the presence of unconjugated anti CD37 MAb at the indicated concentrations 2.5 1.25 0.6 or 0.3 g ml or staining media for 45 minutes on ice in the dark. Blocking antibodies and FITC labeled antibody conjugates were added to reactions prior to addition of cells. The cells were then washed 2.5 times with PBS and fixed with 1 paraformaldehyde USB Cleveland Ohio . The treated cells were analyzed by flow cytometry using a FACsCalibur instrument and CellQuest software BD Biosciences San Jose Calif. .

For FACs cross blocking assays 2.5 10BJAB cells were incubated in 96 well V bottom plates in staining media PBS with 2 mouse sera in the presence of unconjugated anti CD37 MAb at 5 g mL staining media for 45 minutes at room temperature in the dark. FITC conjugated anti CD37 mAbs were added to a final concentration of 2 g ml resulting in a dilution of the unlabelled reagents to 3.3 g ml. The reactions were further incubated for 45 minutes at room temperature in the dark then washed 2.5 times with PBS and finally fixed in 1 paraformaldehyde in PBS USB Cleveland Ohio . Cells were analyzed by flow cytometry on a FACsCalibur instrument using Cell Quest software BD Biosciences San Jose Calif. .

For cell binding assays cells were suspended in PBS Gibco Invitrogen Grand Island N.Y. containing 2 FBS Gibco Invitrogen staining media at a concentration of approximately 4 10cells mL. Cells were then plated and test samples diluted in staining media were then added 1 1 to the final designated concentrations. Reactions were incubated for 45 minutes on ice. Samples were centrifuged and washed 2 times with PBS. FITC goat anti human IgG CalTag Burlingame Calif. was added at a final dilution of 1 50 and incubated 45 minutes on ice. Samples were centrifuged washed in PBS then fixed in 200 l 1 paraformaldehyde in PBS USB Cleveland Ohio . Cells were analyzed by flow cytometry on a FACsCalibur instrument using Cell Quest software BD Biosciences San Jose Calif. .

Each antibody showed dose dependent inhibition of binding indicating that all the molecules tested bind to an identical or closely related epitope. A different potency for inhibition of binding was observed for each antibody. CAS 006 SMIP had the highest level of blocking activity of all molecules tested while HH1 gave an intermediate level of blocking activity and WR17 IPO24 blocked better than MB371 but showed less effective blocking than the other two unlabeled molecules .

In addition to analysis of blocking activity a similar series of experiments was performed in which various CD37 targeted antibodies were tested for their ability to compete with one another for binding to the CD37 receptor. The results from these experiments like results obtained in the blocking studies for all the molecules tested indicated that the various CD37 targeted antibodies and CAS 006 have the same or closely overlapping epitopes.

The objective of this experiment was to examine the dose response to treatment with CAS 024 in a model of established subcutaneous human tumor DOHH2 xenograft model in SCID mice. DOHH2 is a CD20CD37 human B lymphoblastoid cell line derived from a patient with follicular lymphoma Kluin Nelemans et al. Leukemia 5 221 1991 . Thus DOHH2 was derived from a patient with a non Burkitt s NHL.

Five million DOHH2 cells were injected subcutaneously into the flank of female CB 17SCID mice Harlan Somerville N.J. at 6.5 weeks of age and at a mean weight of 18.0 0.1 g ranging from 14.6 to 22.6 g . On day 8 post tumor inoculation palpable tumors were apparent in a majority of mice. The tumor bearing mice were sorted into four groups with equivalent mean tumor volumes n 14 per group 2 cages of 5 mice and 1 cage of 4 mice for each group . The day of the sort was defined as day 0. Tumor diameters were determined with a pair of calipers and tumor volumes were calculated using the formula V length width . The baseline mean tumor volume was 228 mm the median baseline tumor size was 224 mm and the range was 179 to 284 mm.

Tumor bearing groups of SCID mice were treated on days 0 4 and 8 via IP injection of 0.2 mL of PBS containing 200 g of huIgG negative control or 200 100 30 10 or 3 g of CAS 024. The two lowest dose solutions of CAS 024 were prepared on the day of injection to avoid the need to add a carrier protein to the most dilute solutions. Drug solutions were color coded as described below see Table 8 below .

Dose solutions were prepared in similar volumes and the contents of the tubes were noted on removable labels. An investigator who was not treating or assessing the mice placed a color code on each tube and noted the code and identity of the tube contents in a laboratory notebook. Mice were monitored daily by visual inspection. Weights were determined weekly and tumor diameters were determined at least 3 times per week M W F by an observer blinded see above to the treatment groups. Tumor volumes were calculated as described above. Mice were euthanized if their tumor volume reached more than 1500 mm or 1200 mmon Fridays . Death was not an endpoint in the tumor protocols and unless noted otherwise survival of a mouse was determined by the time it was euthanized due to its tumor volume reaching the predetermined limits. The protocol called for mice to be euthanized if 1 their tumor volume exceeded the parameters noted above 2 ulceration of a tumor occurred 3 the tumor inhibited the mobility of the mouse and 4 weight loss exceeded 20 of body weight. 

One mouse in the CAS 024 100 g treatment group was euthanized on day 35 due to weight loss 20 . This mouse had a tumor volume of 266 mmat that time and was treated as censored data for the survival analysis not euthanized as of day 35 due to tumor growth . For the calculation of tumor free incidence at the end of the study this mouse was classified as one that was euthanized during the study due to growth of its tumor its tumor was growing back at the time of its death . No other mice were found dead and none were euthanized due to weight loss tumor ulceration or impaired mobility. No overt signs of toxicity or weight loss were observed in any of the treatment groups data not shown .

All statistical analyses were performed using GraphPad Prism software. Significant differences in mean tumor volumes and mean relative tumor volumes were determined using a one way ANOVA for nonparametric data Kruskal Wallis test with Dunn s multiple comparison post test. To examine differences between each of the CAS 024 treated groups and the huIgG group all groups were compared. For comparisons between the CAS 024 groups only the huIgG group was excluded. In addition the high and middle dose 200 100 and 30 g groups were analyzed as a one data set and the middle and low dose 30 10 and 3 g groups were analyzed as another data set. Significant differences in survival of mice over time were determined using Kaplan Meier survival analysis with a log rank test for comparing survival curves. Significant differences in the incidence of tumor free mice were determined using Fisher s exact test. p values

CAS 024 had a dose dependent inhibitory effect on the growth of DOHH2 tumors. With the exception of the low 3 g dose regimen group the mean tumor volume of each CAS 024 treated group was significantly lower than that of the human IgG treated group as early as day 5 and remained lower through day 12. The huIgG treated mice were euthanized starting on day 12 therefore comparisons of tumor volumes of the CAS 024 treated groups to the huIgG group were not performed for later time points. In terms of a dose response there was no significant difference in the mean tumor volumes of the two highest dose groups at any point in the study. In contrast the mean tumor volumes of these two groups differed significantly from those of each of the three lower dose groups from days 12 through 16 day 16 was the last evaluable timepoint for the low dose group . Similarly the mean tumor volumes in mice of the 30 g and 10 g dose groups differed from each other and from the low dose group over this same period.

The tumors in the mice treated with huIgG grew rapidly and all of the mice in this group were euthanized by day 19. As summarized in Tables 9 and 10 below the survival of mice treated with any of the CAS 024 dose regimens was prolonged relative to the huIgG treated group p

All of the mice in the huIgG treated group and in the two lowest 10 and 3 g CAS 024 dose groups were euthanized due to growth of their tumors. In contrast the majority of tumors in the groups of mice treated with 200 or 100 g of CAS 024 regressed to the point that no palpable tumor was present. By the end of the study 11 14 79 of the mice in each of the two highest dose groups and 5 14 36 of the mice in the 30 g dose group remained tumor free p

Thus CAS 024 exhibited dose dependent inhibitory effects on the growth of established subcutaneous human tumor DOHH2 xenografts in SCID mice. The two highest dose regimens 100 or 200 g per IP injection cumulative dose of 300 or 600 g which corresponds to about 16.7 or 33 mg kg respectively had similar inhibitory effects and were the most efficacious of the regimens tested in terms of inhibiting tumor growth prolonging survival and inducing complete tumor regression.

The objective of this study was to examine the efficacy of CAS 024 and RITUXAN rituximab as single agents in a model of established human tumor DOHH2 xenografts in SCID mice. As set out above DOHH2 is a CD20 CD37 human B lymphoblastoid cell line derived from a patient with follicular lymphoma. Five million DOHH2 cells were injected subcutaneously into the flank of female CB 17SCID mice Harlan Somerville N.J. at 6.5 weeks of age. On day 8 post tumor inoculation palpable tumors were apparent in a majority of the mice.

The tumor bearing mice were sorted into four groups n 15 per group 3 cages of 5 mice for each group with equivalent mean tumor volumes. The day of the sort was defined as day 0 of the study. Tumor diameters were determined with a pair of calipers and tumor volumes were calculated using the formula V length width . The baseline mean tumor volume was 228 mm the median baseline tumor size was 227 mm and the range was 181 to 272 mm. Mice 15 per treatment group were treated on days 0 4 and 8 via IP injection of 0.2 ml of PBS containing 200 g human IgG CAS 024 or RITUXAN rituximab for a total of 600 g after the three treatments . For the huIgG CAS 024 and RITUXAN rituximab IP treated groups solutions were prepared in similar volumes and the contents of the tubes were noted on removable labels. An investigator who was not treating or assessing the mice placed a color code on each tube and noted the code and identity of the tube contents in a laboratory notebook.

Mice were monitored daily by visual inspection. Weights were determined weekly and tumor diameters were determined at least 3 times per week M W F by an observer blinded see above to the treatment groups. Tumor volumes were calculated as described above. Tumor volumes on the last day that all mice were alive in each group were also expressed in terms of tumor volumes relative to day 0 using the formula 

Mice were euthanized if their tumor volume reached more than 1500 mm3 or 1200 mm3 on Fridays . Death is not an endpoint in our tumor protocols and unless noted otherwise survival of a mouse was determined by the time it was euthanized due to its tumor volume reaching the predetermined limits. Our protocol calls for mice to be euthanized if their tumor volume exceeds the parameters noted above ulceration of a tumor occurs the tumor inhibits the mobility of the mouse or if weight loss exceeds 20 . 

All statistical analyses were performed using GraphPad Prism software. Significant differences in mean tumor volumes and mean relative tumor volumes were determined using a one way ANOVA for nonparametric data Kruskal Wallis test with Dunn s multiple comparison post test. Significant differences in survival of mice over time were determined using Kaplan Meier survival analysis with a log rank test for comparing survival curves. Significant differences in the incidence of tumor free mice were determined using Fisher s exact test p values

Mice were euthanized when their tumor volume reached the limits described above. One mouse in the CAS 024 treatment group was euthanized on day 45 due to weight loss 20 . This mouse had no apparent SC tumor at that time and was treated as censored data for the survival analysis not euthanized as of day 45 due to tumor growth and was not included in the comparison of tumor free incidence at the end of the study. No other mice were found dead and none were euthanized due to weight loss tumor ulceration or impaired mobility. No overt signs of toxicity or weight loss were observed in any of the treatment groups data not shown .

The CAS 024 and RITUXAN rituximab treated mice exhibited a rapid response to treatment. Mean tumor volumes of the CAS 024 and RITUXAN rituximab treated groups were significantly lower than that of the human IgG treated group as early as day 4 after a single injection of drug and remained lower through day 11. There were no significant differences in mean tumor volumes or mean relative tumor volumes between the CAS 024 and RITUXAN rituximab treated groups through day 11. The hulgG treated mice were euthanized starting on day 11 therefore comparisons of tumor volumes were not performed for later time points.

The tumors in the mice treated with hulgG grew rapidly and all mice in this group were euthanized by day 15. In contrast by day 15 the majority of tumors in the CAS 024 and RITUXAN rituximab treated groups had regressed to the point that no palpable tumor was present. Notably the response to treatment was durable only in the CAS 024 treated group. By the end of the study all of the RITUXAN rituximab treated mice were euthanized due to growth of their tumors whereas 10 14 71 of the mice in the CAS 024 treated group remained tumor free. See Table 9. Thus at the end of the study the survival curves and the incidence of tumor free mice in the CAS 024 treated group differed significantly from the huIgG control group and the RITUXAN rituximab treated group. shows that CAS 024 was statistically superior to RITUXAN rituximab in the in vivo treatment of this animal model of follicular lymphoma.

In conclusion CAS 024 and RITUXAN rituximab were efficacious as single agents in a human tumor DOHH2 xenograft model in SCID mice. While both agents caused an initial tumor regression in the majority of mice long term tumor regression was observed only in the group of mice treated with CAS 024 as tumors relapsed after optimal anti CD20 treatment. Consequently CAS 024 a humanized anti CD37 SMIP shows significant efficacy in pre clinical tumor xenograft models including models that show that RITUXAN rituximab treatment fails over time. These results therefore suggest that CAS 024 treatment of B cell lymphoma and leukemia patients is beneficial and is a viable alternative treatment in patients who fail RITUXAN rituximab treatment.

It was previously demonstrated that CAS 006 acts synergistically in combination with the chemotherapeutic agent fludarabine to kill chronic lymphocytic leukemia CLL cells in vitro see e.g. US Patent Application Publication No. 2007 0059306 . As CLL cells do not actively divide in cell culture in vitro the data indicate that cell proliferation is not required for the pro apoptotic effect of CAS 006 or CAS 024 for its synergy with chemotherapeutic agents. The purpose of this study therefore was to determine whether CAS 024 and various chemotherapeutic agents were effective on a mantle cell lymphoma MCL cell line Rec 1 that actively grows and divides in cell culture in vitro and whether the combination of CAS 024 and a chemotherapeutic agent drug would desensitize or enhance the response of mantle cell lymphoma cells to various chemotherapeutic agents. The chemotherapeutic agents tested were doxorubicin vincristine and fludarabine which are used to treat non Hodgkin s lymphoma and other lymphoid malignancies.

Rec 1 cells a CD37 human B cell line established from a patient with mantle cell lymphoma were tested for growth inhibition in response to crosslinked CAS 024 in the presence or absence of doxorubicin vincristine or fludarabine see . CAS 024 was preincubated with anti human IgG F ab to crosslink the protein. Cells were cultured with medium alone or with medium containing various concentrations of the crosslinked CAS 024 protein in the presence or absence of various concentrations of doxorubicin vincristine or fludarabine. Cultures were incubated for 96 hours and growth inhibition was assessed using an ATP viable cell detection system i.e. viable cells quantified by ATP release .

The Median Effect Combination Index CI method of Chou and Talalay Adv. Enzyme Regul. 22 27 1984 was used for data analysis. A numerical value assigned to each drug combination at predefined dose levels enabled quantitative drug drug interaction comparisons between different drug combinations. Results were expressed as combination indices CI vs. effect level in which effect level represented percent inhibition of cell growth. The mean CI SEM for each effect level was averaged over three experiments. A CI1.0 antagonism. Values presented are the mean SEM for each effect level averaging three independent assays.

The combination of CAS 024 with vincristine or fludarabine was synergistic CI1.0 across all effect levels. Therefore the combination of CAS 024 with each of the three chemotherapeutic agents tested did not desensitize target cells to drug induced growth inhibition but instead resulted in synergistic or additive inhibitory effects on target cell growth. A preferred embodiment would be the combination of CAS 024 SEQ ID NO 253 with vincristine or fludarabine. These data indicate that the efficacy of established chemotherapeutics increase when used in combination with CAS 024.

As provided herein pre clinical studies have demonstrated that CD37 SMIP molecules mediate significantly greater direct and natural killer NK cell mediated killing of chronic lymphocytic leukemia CLL cells as compared to other therapeutic antibodies used in CLL. Hence a Phase open label dose escalation study has been initiated in patients with relapsed chronic lymphocytic leukemia CLL .

Patients with relapsed refractory CLL or small lymphocytic lymphoma SLL who had adequate organ function platelets 30 000 mmwere eligible. Six doses and two different schedules cohorts 1 10 have or will be studied. The planned doses range from 0.03 mg kg to 10 mg kg IV once a week for 4 doses cohort 1 6 and 9 . The second schedule cohort 7 8 and 10 will test 3.0 6.0 or 10.0 mg kg on days 1 3 and 5 the first week followed by 3 weekly doses. Dose escalation and de escalation is based on Common Toxicity Criteria Adverse Events CTC AE toxicity grades. Patients may receive 2 additional cycles if positive biologic effect after first cycle.

Results To date 22 patients have been enrolled cohort 1 7 and 9 and completed treatment all have received prior fludarabine and rituximab treatment . Six patients have entered a second cycle and two patients have entered a third cycle. The patients being treated have gone through a number of prior regimens e.g. Cohort 4 patients had from 6 to 10 median 6 and Cohort 5 had 5 to 13 median 9.5 prior regimens . Eight of the ten have high risk genomic features del 17p13.1 n 5 and del 11q22.3 n 3 . No dose limiting toxicities or serious adverse events have occurred. Mild grade 1 2 infusion toxicity has been observed in three patients. Beginning with the 0.3 mg kg dose all eight patients demonstrated evidence of biological activity including patients with del 17p13.1 . Two patients had partial clearing of leukemia cutis and the median reduction in peripheral lymphocyte count has been 64 see . One patient had a 99 reduction in peripheral lymphocyte count with no serious adverse events and a continuing response after 3 months of treatment see . One patient had an increase in hemoglobin of 40 and a reduction in lymph node size of 36 as determined by CT scan and continues to respond after 3 months of treatment see . Two patients had a significant increase in platelet count.

Conclusion To date this CD37 SMIP molecule is a well tolerated treatment with minimal infusional toxicity and no observed dose limiting toxicity. There also seems to be any complement involvement since patients with severe drops in lymphocyte counts are not showing signs of tumor lysis syndrome. Encouraging reduction in tumor lymphocyte blood counts reduction in lymph node spleen size clearing of leukemia cutis and or partial clearing of marrow disease and or improvement in normal hematopoeitic function in patients with high risk genomic CLL have already been observed at low non saturating doses of CD37 SMIP molecule.

This study was to determine the effects of CAS024 bendamustine and the combination of CAS024 and bendamustine on Rec 1 a mantle cell lymphoma cell line and SU DHL 6 a diffuse large cell lymphoma line cells.

The following human cell lines expressing CD37 were used Rec 1 and SU DHL 6 both from DSMZ Braunschweig Germany . Bendamustine TREANDA was purchased from the University of Washington Pharmacy Seattle Wash. and was dissolved in PBS and stored at 20 C. until use.

Rec 1 and SU DHL 6 cells were plated at 1 10cells well in 100 L medium in 96 well black sided black bottomed plates. Cells were treated with various concentrations of CAS024 that had been preincubated with anti human IgG F ab and plates were incubated for 96 hr at 37 C. 5 COin the presence of serial dilutions of bendamustine. The final volume in each well was 150 L. After incubation plates were cooled to room temperature and labeled with 100 L well of ATPlite detection reagent Perkin Elmer Boston Mass. . The assay measures cellular ATP as a marker for viable cells. Samples were analyzed by detection of luminescence using a Topcount NXT Perkin Elmer Waltham Mass. plate reader. Data were reduced using a 4 parameter curve fit in Prism version 4.0 Graphpad Software San Diego Calif. and the ICdefined as the concentration resulting in 50 inhibition compared to untreated cultures.

For synergy determination the Median Effect Combination Index CI method was used for data analysis Chou and Talalay . A numerical value assigned to each drug combination at predefined dose levels enables quantitative drug drug interaction comparisons between different drug combinations. The CI values assign interactions into three categories synergism additivity and antagonism CI1.0 respectively . After labeling and data reduction Combination Index CI values were determined using the Calcusyn software package Biosoft Cambridge UK . The results of two separate experiments show that the combination of CAS024 with bendamustine resulted in synergistic inhibitory effects on target cell growth see . Similar results were obtained showing that the combination of CAS024 with bendamustine also synergistically inhibited SU DHL 6 cell growth.

Combination effects of CAS 024 with another alkylating agent chlorambucil were also determined using the method described above and the concentrations shown in . Unlike bendamustine chlorambucil in combination with CAS 024 did not result in synergistic inhibitory effects on SU DHL 6 cell growth see 

This study was to compare the efficacy of CAS024 combined with bendamustine against each agent individually administered against subcutaneous DOHH2 human tumor xenografts in SCID mice.

Establishment of tumor xenografts and sorting into treatment groups. As described above DOHH2 is a CD20CD37 human B lymphoblastoid cell line derived from a patient with follicular lymphoma. Five million DOHH2 cells were injected subcutaneously into the flank of female CB 17 SCID mice. On day 8 post tumor inoculation palpable tumors were apparent in majority of mice. The tumor bearing mice were sorted into five groups with equivalent mean tumor volumes n 15 per group 3 cages of 5 mice for each group . The day of the sort was defined as day 0. Tumor diameters were determined with a pair of calipers and tumor volumes were calculated using the formula V length width . The baseline mean tumor volume was 231 mm the median baseline tumor size was 229 mm and the range was 201 to 261 mm.

In vivo treatment. Groups of mice were treated with an injection of 0.2 mL of PBS containing 10 g huIgG days 0 4 8 IV 10 g CAS024 days 0 4 8 IV 10 mg kg Bendamustine 0 2 4 7 9 IP or 10 g CAS024 days 0 4 8 IV AND 10 mg kg Bendamustine 0 2 4 7 9 IP .

Monitoring and endpoints. Mice were monitored daily by visual inspection. Weights were determined weekly and tumor diameters were determined at least 3 times per week M W F by an observer blinded see above to the treatment groups. Tumor volumes were calculated as described above.

Mice were euthanized if their tumor volume reached more than 1500 mm or 1200 mmon Fridays . Death was not an endpoint in this study and unless noted otherwise survival of a mouse was determined by the time it was euthanized due to its tumor volume reaching the predetermined limits. Mice were euthanized if their tumor volume exceeded the parameters noted above ulceration of a tumor occurs the tumor inhibits the mobility of the mouse or if weight loss exceeds 20 .

Statistical analyses. All statistical analyses were performed using GraphPad Prism software. Significant differences in mean tumor volumes and mean relative tumor volumes were determined using a one way ANOVA for nonparametric data Kruskal Wallis test with Dunn s multiple comparison post test. Significant differences in survival of mice over time were determined using Kaplan Meier survival analysis with a log rank test for comparing survival curves. Significant differences in the incidence of tumor free mice were determined using Fisher s exact test. p values

In the Bendamustine treated groups scruffy coats and diarrhea were seen starting around day 6. On day 10 one mouse in the CAS024 Bendamustine treatment group was euthanized due to 20 weight loss. This mouse was treated as censored data for the analysis of survival curves. No clinical signs of toxicity were seen in the CAS024 alone treatment group.

All treatments demonstrated an inhibitory effect on the growth of DOHH2 compared to huIgG. On day 13 which was the last day all mice were alive the mean tumor volume and mean relative tumor volume of all the treatment groups were statistically different than the huIgG control group of mice . A significant difference in mean tumor volumes and mean relative tumor volumes was also seen between Bendamustine and the CAS024 Bendamustine combination treatment group. There were no significant differences in mean tumor volumes or mean relative tumor volumes between any two other treatment groups. Mean tumor volumes over time of the four groups are shown in .

The tumors in the mice treated with huIgG grew rapidly and all of the mice in this group were euthanized by day 17. As shown in and summarized in Tables 12 and 13 the survival of mice dosed with any of the treatment groups was prolonged compared to the huIgG treated group p 0.0001 for all groups . There was also a significant difference between the survival curves of all three treatment groups and each other with the CAS024 bendamustine combination being superior to either single agent.

None of the huIgG treated mice were alive thus none were tumor free at the end of the study day 34 and Table 12 . The incidence of tumor free mice in the other groups was 0 15 0 in the CAS024 and Bendamustine treatment groups and 2 14 14 in the CAS024 Bendamustine combination treatment group. There was no significant difference in the incidence of tumor free mice between any of the treatment groups.

This study shows that CAS024 combined with Bendamustine exhibited inhibitory effects on the growth of DOHH2 tumors in SCID mice greater than that seen with either agent alone.

The various embodiments described above can be combined to provide further embodiments. All of the U.S. patents U.S. patent application publications U.S. patent applications foreign patents foreign patent applications and non patent publications referred to in this specification and or listed in the Application Data Sheet are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. Aspects of the embodiments can be modified if necessary to employ concepts of the various patents applications and publications to provide yet further embodiments.

These and other changes can be made to the embodiments in light of the above detailed description. In general in the following claims the terms used should not be construed to limit the claims to the specific embodiments disclosed in the specification and the claims but should be construed to include all possible embodiments along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. Accordingly the claims are not limited by the disclosure.

