---

title: System and method for providing messages
abstract: A system and method for providing a message to a recipient is provided. The system includes a network communication system for providing a message to a recipient using a communication device. The network communication system includes a communication system operatively connected to at least one communication device. The network communication system further includes an exchange platform, the exchange platform having a signal media server operatively connected to at least one message server, the exchange platform receiving a communication from a potential recipient through the communication device, the communication system determining if the potential recipient is flagged in a recipient database, the message server determining the message, the message server retrieving at least one message, wherein the signal media server forwards the message to the recipient via the communication device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09047619&OS=09047619&RS=09047619
owner: 
number: 09047619
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20091105
---
This application claims the benefit of the following U.S. Provisional Patent Application incorporated herein by reference in its entirety App. No. 61 198 520 filed on Nov. 6 2008 and entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PROVIDING ADVERTISEMENTS. 

The invention relates to the field of mobile communications and more particularly to improved methods and systems for information delivery associated with a telecommunications network.

Because of an increasing popularity of communication devices such as mobile phones a growing need exists for providing messaging services such as advertising messaging services to users of such communication devices. Existing technologies allow a phone switch to play messages during a phone call. The phone switch can play a recorded message such as an advertising message in place of a ring back tone.

Common architecture for providing custom ring back tone includes a Mobile Switching Center MSC a Home Location Register HLR and a ring back tone generator RBTG . In this architecture software in a network MSC in conjunction with the Home Location Register HLR identifies which received calls have been placed by or to corresponding subscribers of the ring back service. The MSC sets up a voice path to the RBTG for conveying a ring back tone to the recipient while also placing an outbound call connection to alert the called party. A RBTG is also conveyed in situations where the recipient has received a busy signal after connecting to the called party indicating that the called party is busy.

The RBTG then plays the selected audio message back to the recipient through the voice path while the called party phone is alerted of the incoming call connection request. After detecting that the called party answers the phone the MSC breaks a link to the RBTG and bridges the recipient phone to the called party phone via a voice communication channel so that the recipient and the called party can talk with each other without the custom ring back tone being played.

Current methods and systems are ineffective when it comes to communicating customer service messages to mobile subscribers. While methods deliver advertisements to the recipient based cursory or preliminary information such methods fall flat when those who want to deliver advertisements want to definitively target their advertisements or communicate effectively to a subscriber. Further such third parties are at a loss when it comes to feedback from any delivery undertaken to such a subscriber.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment an embodiment or similar language means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in one embodiment in an embodiment in another embodiment and similar language throughout this specification may but do not necessarily all refer to the same embodiment.

As used herein the term Message can be all types of information but is not limited to marketing including advertising or those messages that can be used for life cycle management and customer relationship management. The messaging could also include information that is not related to the purpose of selling goods and or services.

The message is directed to an end user or wireless mobile subscriber hereinafter Recipient using a communication device which includes but is not limited to the communication device used for placing calls and playing back Messages . For example the communication device can be a phone such as a cell phone mobile phone smart phone landlines PDA phone or the like. The communication device can also be a Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP device. For example the communication device can be a computing device such as a desktop computer laptop computer tablet computer or PDA with software enabling the computing device to make VoIP calls over the Internet or the communication device could simply be a device that plays audio and accepts commands such as voice commands more later .

The timing of providing Messages to the communication device a Message s could be provided prior to during or after the ring back tone ringing tone or busy signal. Further the playback of the Message could be interleaved with a busy signal or the ringing of the Recipient s telephone. For example the busy signal and the Message could both be provided to the unsuccessful caller at the same time. Alternatively one or more Messages could be provided to the caller in between rings of the Recipient s telephone or between the tones of the busy signal i.e. the Messages may be interleaved with the rings or the busy signal . Similarly one or more Messages could be provided to the caller prior to the first ring of the called party s telephone after a predetermined number of rings and or after a predetermined time period from the first ring. The Message could also be provided after the caller request to delay the call. In the case of an audio speaker the playback of the Message could be triggered once a particular Recipient walks by a location that detects the Recipient s presence.

As used herein the term modules and as employed herein are considered computer executable program stored on a computer readable storage medium. These modules provide information to a flagged Recipient and carrying one or more sequences of instructions wherein execution of the one or more sequences of instructions by one or more processors embodied therein causes the one or more processors to perform a method for providing information to the Recipient using the communication device. A party is connected to the EP and can potentially receive information from the EP using the communication device connected to the NCS and is hereinafter together referred to as the Recipient

Further the term modules is used in an embodiment of the present invention. Modules can be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code can for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which can for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but can comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Further storage medium can include but is not limited to one or more of the following any type of physical media including floppy disks optical discs DVDs CD ROMs microdrives magneto optical disks holographic storage devices ROMs RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs DRAMs PRAMS VRAMs flash memory devices magnetic or optical cards nano systems including molecular memory ICs paper or paper based media and any type of media or device suitable for storing instructions and or information. Various embodiments include a computer program product that can be transmitted in whole or in parts and over one or more public and or private networks wherein the transmission includes instructions and or information which can be used by one or more processors to perform any of the features presented herein.

A module of executable code can be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network.

The Exchange Platform hereinafter EP connects to the CS from in one embodiment outside the network via any communication Connection typically a SS7 network with a Voice Trunk Connection hereinafter SS7 VTC and via a Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol Connection hereinafter TCP IP connection explained more in but all connections inside NCS can be any time of appropriate network connection.

The EP can also be located within the CS environment. The Connection typically the SS7 VTC but can also be through alternatives such as an IP Multimedia Subsystem hereinafter IMS or other Long Term Evolution hereinafter LTE communication protocols connecting callers which are expected to supplant currently installed SS7 infrastructures . The EP is also operatively connected to an Account via a Connection that can be any type network connection that allows for data communication typically a TCP IP connection.

The EP is also operatively connected to the Recipient via any type communication line that allows for voice communication generally referred to as a Voice Trunk Connection hereinafter VTC . The Connection illustrated between the EP and the Recipients allows support for all communications types including those required for transferring such items as text images video data VoIP etc.

The CS is comprised of at least one Originating Switch or Mobile Switching Center hereinafter MSC at least one Home Location Register hereinafter HLR at least one Service Control Point hereinafter SCP at least one OSS BSS SMSC and at least one Terminating Switch or MSC also referred to as a Terminating MSC or T MSC. Under certain conditions to be explained in detail later the communication is then routed and interconnected to the EP .

The NCS includes Accounts that are connected with the EP . The EP allows Accounts to interact with the EP via the Connection but could be any type of appropriate communication connection. The Accounts are third parties who create utilize target deliver and monitor information for communicating marketing advertising and or selling to Recipients . Recipients in an embodiment are the Calling A Party the Called B Party an Online User s and or the Communication Device . In another embodiment Recipients can also be Accounts .

When any Calling A Party Called B Party Online User s and or Communication Device is first routed to the EP from the CS they are referred to as a Flagged Recipient as in they have been identified and flagged by the CS and party to potential receive the Message from the EP . It is then up to the instructions stored in the EP determine if the Message is sent and what Message is sent.

Communication Devices used by Recipient s can be a transceiver that allows communication from itself and the EP . Further the Recipient would not have to be physically being carrying the Communication Devices . For example a person could be identified while in an environment where that identification then triggers the EP to send that specific person now flagged a particular Message to the Communication Devices in the environment. For example the Communication Devices could simply have a speaker that can play the appropriate audio Message relative to any data known about the flagged person in the EP when passing say a motion detector such as those known in the art.

This person who has been flagged to receive the Message from the EP could respond to the audio Message played using the same Communication Devices with the speaker attached and or the Communication Devices could be broken into separate components where the person flagged could respond by such methods as a voice command prompt pressing a designated button in the environment area connected to the Communication Devices by making a designated motion and or by some other method that can communicate a specific Action request back by the Recipient back to the EP .

The Accounts can also be considered marketers and advertisers which can also be the Mobile Operator Carrier s themselves. The data Accounts input can include their total budget for messaging and advertising a particular bid for a particular Campaign and or specific to segmentations such as specific time locations and or Recipient segments. The Accounts input can also be content for audio Messages to a group of cellular subscriber Recipients such as whose contract is ending soon available minutes have been consumed and or eligible for a new phone offer. The input can also be the particular Account s choices for targeting Message delivery with rules and instructions more later . The Accounts can be categorized into user types such as Mobile Operator Carrier s Handset Provider Manufacturer s Content Provider s Advertiser s and Brand s Advertising Agencies Mobile Subscriber s and Online User s .

The mobile network operator who is in control of the CS and or some other component within the CS can typically communicate with the EP from within the CS environment. For example a mobile network operator such as Verizon could communicate to the EP from within the CS environment and likely through an operator firewall not shown but along both the Connection and via a TCP IP connection and or any appropriate network connection.

Verizon in this example could also connect from outside the CS as an Account or more precisely as a Mobile Operator Carrier s . Whereas a particular mobile network operator who did not control the particular CS in this example such as Sprint may instead be allowed by the CS owner Verizon in this example to participate on the EP through any network connection here depicted as the Internet Connection as the Mobile Operator Carrier s Account. In addition Sprint could have its own rules and permissions for Accounts it allows access to the EP connected to its Sprint s own CS separate from the Verizon s rules and permissions for its Verizon s CS and connected EP .

The same basic functionality applies for Handset Provider Manufacturer s that are Accounts such as Nokia Research In Motion Apple Microsoft etc. where the information advertisements and or communications they provide could be in general and or tailored to a particular mobile operator e.g. Verizon AT T T Mobile Rogers Orange etc. and or to a particular mobile subscriber who is using their brand and or a specific handset type mobile communication device used by any Calling A Party and or any Called B Party that is connected to the CS and or the EP .

Content Provider s are Accounts such as ESPN TMZ The Weather Channel etc. where the content they provide to the EP can be in any form retrievable by the Recipient such as audio Messages SMS MMS text images video etc. This content can be made available for free a fee in exchange for service in exchange for another event and or Action such as participating in a poll and or some combination of these. This content in some cases can be made available to Recipients in delineations referred to as Channels. Collections of channels are referred to as Programs in the invention and more on this later in .

Advertiser s and Brand s are Accounts such as Coke McDonalds Nike Best Buy Starbucks etc. where the information advertisements and or communications they provide to the EP can be directly associated with a particular brand and or a particular product and where such items are owned and controlled by the participating advertiser or brand. For example the brand Coke could pay to run audio Messages that promote a new line of soft drinks owned by Coke . A retail brand such as Best Buy could advertise a sale at their participating stores.

Advertising Agencies can also be Accounts including Interpublic WPP Group Omnicom the Publicis Groupe Havas Dentsu etc. where the information advertisements and or communications they provide to the EP are for a client of theirs.

Mobile Subscriber s are Accounts where the information advertisements and or communications they provide to the EP are as a mobile subscriber of a particular CS owner such as Verizon AT T T mobile Sprint Rogers Orange etc. that has allowed the Mobile Subscriber access to the EP with an Account . In this embodiment Mobile Subscriber s are allowed to setup standard or personalized Messages advertisements etc.

Online User s can also be Accounts where the information advertisements and or communications they provide to the EP are as a random consumer or business who would typically connect via the World Wide Web. For example a member of a social network such as Facebook could interact with the EP by creating a particular Message and or Campaign for others to interact with e.g. hear read view buy sell etc.

The EP further allows third parties or Accounts to create manage distribute measure report and adjust their messaging or advertising for a client. The EP allows the Accounts to setup specific Campaigns with Messages and or advertising along with specific follow up actions that can be taken by the Recipients setup with rules and instructions for each particular Message and or Campaign. In addition the EP allows accounts other organization capabilities and reporting functionality including revenue reports with various ways to view data such as summary totals by Recipient segmentations e.g. Demographics Psychographics Location Motion Contact History Behavioral etc. timing and usage tracking Action metric or conversion metric and advertiser optimization goal type explained in detail later.

The EP is comprised of a Message Service Platform hereinafter MSP and a Message Management Platform hereinafter MMP . The MSP and MMP can communicate with each other through a standard Network Connection typically a TCP IP and a File Transfer Protocol hereinafter FTP connection but can be any type connection that supports data. The MSP and MMP include a series of servers and modules explained later in detail which communicate and are otherwise operatively connected within the EP .

The MMP is comprised of a Content Server a Customer Relationship Management hereinafter CRM Server an Operator Gateway Server a Web Server a WAP Server and an IVR Server . The Web Server allows Accounts to connect with the EP via the Connection or via any network connection.

When Accounts interact with the MMP using a web interface accessible on the Web Server the information needed for the logic and the association of items such as what content belongs to which Account and or Campaign is stored and maintained on the CRM Server and the associated Message content such as audio clips or Messages sometimes referred to as Message Clips are stored and maintained on the Content Server . The logic stored to identify a specific Message Clip is referred to as a Message ID.

The content associated to a particular Account and or Campaign and addressable via the logic in the CRM Server for WAP Wireless Access Protocol pages is stored and maintained on the WAP Server which can be used interactively by the Recipients via the Connection or any network connection. The content associated to a particular Account and or Campaign and addressable via the logic in the CRM Server for IVR Interactive Voice Response information is stored and maintained on the IVR Server which can be used interactively by the Recipients via the VTC connection or any network connection.

All the content needed to support the near real time playback of Messages is copied and pushed from the MMP s Content Server to the MSP s Signal Media Server and tracked by the CRM Server . All the logic needed to support the near real time instructions of an Account s Campaign are pushed as a copy of the master file from the MMP s CRM Server to the MSP s Message Server . This push of needed content Campaign logic and settings can either be set up to happen in preset time intervals e.g. every hour when updates are made by rules determined by an Account based on timing rules based on billing budgeting bidding rules explained more later and or some combination of these push methods.

The CS in the previous can communicate with the MSP via the Connection and into a Signal Media Server or via any network communication connection appropriate. When the CS routes a call to the Signal Media Server as stated the Signal Media Server is meant to contain all the content needed for near real time playback of Messages any instructions for when to play a Message for a particular Campaign such as the Timing Rules and Sequencing Rules explained in detail later for a particular Recipient and or Campaign any instructions for whether the particular Campaign has Predetermined Recipients referred to as Predetermined Recipients or if instead the particular Campaign will employ a Message Selection Engine hereinafter MSE described in detail later which can employ multiple rules and engines to determine which Message or group of Messages gets played and in what order Sequencing Rules included in the Message Selection Rule Module hereinafter MSRM described in detail later in respectively any instructions for whether to incorporate an Optimization Selection Module hereinafter OSM which is based on previous performance data described in detail later in and any instructions for follow up Actions to a particular Message such as a Dual Tone Multi Frequency hereinafter DTMF signal from a button typically pressed by the Calling A Party for requesting a SMS MMS a tiny URL Web page WAP page Offer coupons External Communications e.g. Email Outbound Calls Direct Mail etc. etc. The call flow itself will be explained in more detailed later in and and in an alternative embodiment in and .

EP also communicates with the OSS BSS SMSC in the previous via an Operator Gateway Server through the TCP IP connection or any appropriate network connection. The OSS BSS SMSC represents the Mobile Operator s typical Legacy systems such as the Operations Support System OSS the Business Support System BSS the system typically to manage business operations such as provisioning billing sales management customer service management and customer database the Short Message Service Center SMSC the system typically supports Short Message Service hereinafter SMS and or Multimedia Messaging Service hereinafter MMS Message storage point to point mobile originated and terminated short message service.

The Recipient can respond to a Campaign Message in a number of manners including the pressing any number or key combinations on their communication device or handset that have been pre designated by an Account as a means to notify the EP for a specific request for any additional information to a Message played referred as an Action. If there is a series of potential sequential Actions to a particular Message the first Action is referred to as the Initial Action for this invention. Each Action following a previous Action is called a Subsequent Action whether initiated by the Recipient or the EP . An Action Response is a subset of Actions and refers to a specific Action that is sent back to the Recipient in response to particular Action taken by the Recipient as is depicted later in .

For example the Calling A Party and Called B Party can communicate these Actions using SMS when SMS is designated as an Action by an Account . SMS is a mechanism of delivery of short messages over mobile networks. In addition to SMS Smart Messaging from Nokia EMS Enhanced Messaging System and MMS have emerged. MMS adds images text audio clips and ultimately video clips to SMS.

For example if an Account had a Campaign that included an audio Message that suggested the Recipient press any key on their communication device known in the telecommunications industry as a DTMF command to receive additional information in the form of a SMS or MMS the Account can utilize the Message Management Platform s UI to setup this Action to a particular Message in advance. The Mobile Operator Carrier API s are typically connected via the TCP IP between the OSS BSS SMSC and the Operator Gateway Server but they can use any network connections appropriate. The data contents and instructions are typically stored on the CRM Server .

For example employing the Connection or any network connection appropriate such as the SS7 VTC in one embodiment a Recipient presses the DTMF Action described and pre assigned by the Account in response to an audio Message instruction heard Message seen and or per a previous Action explained as long as there is still an open Connection or similar network connection there remains a one to one relationship for identifying the specific Recipient and the request or Action comes through the CS to the EP or via some other network connection. The EP knows which particular incoming Action request or set of instructions came from which particular Recipient because of the one to one relationship between the audio Message played via the audio Message s Message ID and the corresponding Action ID and instructions. The Message Server sends the Action request to the CRM Server where the associated content and instructions are stored and are in turned passed to the Operator Gateway Server and back to the OSS BSS SMSC via the TCP IP connection.

In this embodiment the Mobile Operator Carrier in control of the CS with the corresponding OSS BSS SMSC can then push the SMS MMS Action Response back to the appropriate Calling A Party via Path or any network connection appropriate. From the beginning of the connection between the Recipient and the EP the Message Server creates and stores a unique session ID for that particular Recipient and any subsequent communications. Should this particular Recipient later perform an Action such as request information based on instructions delivered in an earlier audio Message SMS MMS or some other Action those Actions will contain the original unique session ID to track that particular Recipient and the corresponding Actions.

Types of Actions which can be performed by a Recipient can also include Clicks on URLs embedded in the SMS MMS message Conversions transactions traced through the unique session ID back to subscribers who heard or saw a particular Message Page Views on WAP or Web sites traced through the unique session ID back to subscribers who heard or saw a particular Message .

The WAP Server for example can deliver WAP content and interact directly with Recipients via Connection or any network connection appropriate for communications with the EP . When a particular Recipient requests a WAP page that Action request comes with the original session ID mapped through Tiny URL explained more below for that WAP page. Both WAP pages and Web Pages also can be related with this particular Recipient s initial session ID by mapping through Tiny URL for the pages for tracking the collective effectiveness success of a multi step Campaign. Besides sending SMS MMS responses through the Mobile Operator Carrier who controls the CS and correlating OSS BSS SMSC in another embodiment the EP could also host or subscribe to its own independent SMS MMS server or service and such capabilities not shown similar to the WAP Server .

For example a third party could log into the MMP using the Input Module to access their existing Account . The Account could create a distinct Campaign using the Campaign Management module and could assign an audio Message and instructions as to how when and where to play the Message using the Message Management module. In the Action Management module the Account could input what SMS message the Recipient should receive should the Recipient use the DTMF Action as a response. All the EP s usage is tracked by the Reporting Engine and sometimes referred to as Usage Tracking.

The AE depicted includes at least one rule generated in the Account Management typically related to setting up permission and roles for accessing data content Recipients and Message Inventory. The Account s Administrator with the broadest privileges will be referred to as a Super Administrator . Each Account can assign who is the Super Administrator who is then in charge of assigning all the Accounts other privileges. The AE works in concert with the BBBE and is also explained in more detail ahead including and . The BBBE depicted includes at least one rule generated in the BBBM .

The BBBM allows the Accounts to manage their own Account s accounting as well as the billing to other Accounts . As a condition for allowing an Account access to certain other Account s data Campaigns and or content such as audio Messages the Super Administrator for the entire EP the Super Administer of a particular Account and or a specific Account general Administrator with the appropriate privileges explained later under Members Roles can require and or set financial consideration and or budget constraints to other Accounts .

For example the Super Administrator may setup specific financial consideration with specific thresholds in dollar amounts times and or tolerance settings for other Accounts to interact with their data. In addition there could be specific thresholds in contents roles times etc. related to Campaigns and or with specifically set flat fees for a given period of time a given quantity of inventory a fixed amount per Message play a fixed amount per Action taken variable amounts based on rules explained later impression based for Messages Actions and or some combination e.g. cost per thousand impression or CPM cost per click CPC cost per action CPA and or other segmentation rule based pricing approach Segmentation Rules Recipient Segmentation and Segmentation Group Rules explained in more detail later . In an embodiment the Account budget for allowing other Accounts access can be resolved before forwarding any Messages to any Recipients . The Exchange Platform can manage any and all fees including real time and near real time auction bids for inventory or specifically targeted segments invoicing and collections.

For example the Account can go directly to the Message Management module and create or edit Messages without first attaching these Messages to a specific Campaign which can be done later. If a specific Campaign has been specified already by the Account the Message Management module allows the Account to determine if the Campaign will use audio by utilizing an Audio Message option and or using another format by utilizing an Other Message Format s option for such formats as an image or video which can be created and managed utilizing a Create and Manage Other Message Format s function before utilizing the Preview Save function.

A Target Management module allows the Accounts to link specific Campaign components such as Messages and Actions to a particular segmentation element category and or group of elements. These segmentation elements can also have rules associated with them independent of a particular Campaign or linked specifically for a particular Campaign. Segmentation elements can be relative to a Recipient such as Geography Demographics Psychographics Behavioral Motion Velocity Direction Altitude Mode of Transit Contextual Mood etc. can be relative to time such as the time of day day of week etc. can be relative a budget such as a monetary constraint per Message played to a Recipient per Action taken by a Recipient per result of an Action such as a Click Conversion or Page View etc. and or some combination of these elements and incorporating rules such as Boolean operator rules and or not etc. weighting prioritizing sequencing etc. and will be explained in more detail later.

The option to use the Target Management module becomes available to the Account s Dashboard after the Account has been setup. A potential Campaign can be created and saved such as with a particular Message or a particular Action and can be tied to a specific Campaign but targeting rules can also be built and managed independent of a specific Campaign. For example targeting rules could be created for a group of Recipients with specific characteristics such as Males in Los Angeles over 40. This targeting rule can be saved reused and or applied later to other elements such as a specific Campaign as and when needed. Components such as Messages and Actions segmentation elements categories groups and or groups with rules can be made available for use to others within the same Account and or to other Accounts and these Account users are referred to as Members in this invention more later .

A Create Modify Audio module allows the Account a range of inputs via an Audio Options Module as depicted in the next Figure . A Create Modify Action s module allows the Account to add at least one follow up Action to the specific Message and or their Account . Similar to the Audio Options there is an Action Options module in which the Account sets up Action preferences and rules such as whether a particular URL entered in a particular SMS MMS Action Response will in turn be shortened to a Tiny URL explained more below will the clicks be tracked and or whether the phone numbers entered in for a particular SMS MMS Action Response will in turn be replaced with a tracking phone number which then forwards to the Account provided number explained more later in . In an embodiment the Account specifies the original URLs and the phone numbers associated with an Action to the CRM Server which can then replaces these URLs with a unique tracking URL that allows the CRM Server to track whether a Recipient visited the original URL or made a call to the original phone number.

The Action Options module also contains a Library of existing Actions similar to the functionality available from the Audio Options in . An Assign Action to Message ID and or Campaign module is where the Account can make existing Actions available only to a specific Message within a Campaign to several Messages and or several Campaigns only to those Members within their particular Account or Accounts Divisions sub Accounts a particular kind of an Account e.g. Advertiser s Brand s and or globally to all Accounts and or Members for a limited time and or for a limited budget threshold. A Subsequent Action function allows the Account to continually add Actions to a particular Message ID and or Campaign that are assigned sequentially started with the initial Action typically a DTMF more on Actions in usage in and utilizing the Action Management module in .

The Target Management module also allows the Account to assign multiple rules to Campaigns Messages and or Actions and will be discussed in more detail later in several Figures including and . The Account can Preview and Save the new materials and or edits under the Account and the MMP also notes the author Member date and time of each creation modification if known.

There can be several Actions and several Action types assigned to follow the initial audio Message delivered to the Recipient in either a random order in a predetermined sequence or in a range of possible orders. Each Action taken by a Recipient is tracked for its effectiveness relative to the conditions known and that particular Recipient s known or to be known data. Each Action can then be multi variant tested against each other available Action to determine relative effectiveness to a particular segment. This performance testing enables the EP to optimize it s effectiveness through data collected and or by Account based rules.

For example the initial Action in a predetermined series of Actions to a particular Message within a particular Campaign could be accept DTMF of any phone key and reply with an SMS of please visit this url www.action example.com the second Action could be assigned to return a specific WAP page that was listed in the previous SMS text message and the third Action in the series could be to email the Recipient a specific coupon offer. A Subsequent Action module allows the Account to continue to add these Subsequent Actions to the initial DTMF Action.

The options available to the Account depicted in the left column in this example start with an Existing Audio Suggestion where the Account can obtain and or search for suggestions based on similarities within the Accounts Campaigns Specifications and or keywords used in the Message Script used the text script for the Message . A Record by Mic option allows the Account to record an audio Message a Professional Voice Talent option allows the Account to assign the script to a particular voice over talent by previewing the talent s work the BBBM handles billing for such services and payment to the professionals providing the voice over services an Upload Audio option allows for uploading existing audio files a Text to Speech module option allows for a software program known in the existing art to convert the text script to an audio Message and a Message Library module option allows Accounts to see all existing audio that the particular Member of that Account has the appropriate privileges to preview edit and or use along with any associated rules on usage budgets and time restraints more details later under user interface examples including .

For example some existing audio Messages in the Message Library may be usable and editable by anyone in any Account for any purpose whereas some audio Messages may only be useable for a limited time for a specific Campaign and only to a particular Account and or a particular Member. These rules can be viewed for existing Messages and assigned to new audio Messages using an Editorial Guidelines module and music and or other special effects can be added and or requested by utilizing a Music FX Mixing module then Previewed and Saved .

The SGRM depicted in can be utilized by Accounts to group individual rules and or rule assignments together. These rule groups in turned get pushed to the SGE and are typically utilized by the MSE . Segmentation Rules Recipient Segmentation and Segmentation Group Rules are all explained in more detail later.

The TE depicted includes at least one rule generated in the TRM . The TE provided in the Message Server communicates to the Signal Media Server to which incoming Flagged Recipients will receive hear a Message based on several rules that have been collectively established by all the Accounts using the TRM and other rule modules. An Account can setup a Campaign with Timing Rules through the TRM for such things as limiting when Campaigns run or not run to particular days days of the week and or times within a day. Another timing rule can control the Frequency Occurrence at which an incoming Flagged Recipient will receive Messages.

For example if the Frequency Occurrence was preset by an Account to a 1 1 ratio for all Flagged Recipients within a particular Campaign than a Message would be played for every Flagged Recipient routed to the EP . If instead the Account preset the Frequency Occurrence to a 30 1 ratio for all Flagged Recipients for the same particular Campaign than a Message would be played one out of every thirty times each identified Flagged Recipient was routed to the EP . So that when the thirty first call is made by the Flagged Recipient he she would receive another Message and not again until the sixty first call is made in this 30 1 ratio example.

The Frequency Occurrence can be combined with other rules and or segments of data for such things as segmentation of Recipients . For example a subset with a 30 1 Frequency Occurrence for Males under 40 and a subset with a 50 1 Frequency Occurrence for Males over 40.

There are many methods to segment data and apply rules independently or cumulatively for targeting Recipients . For example a Mobile Operator Carrier s or another Account who has been granted and or paid for access to the necessary data may wish to segment some of the Recipients of a particular Campaign of theirs into different categories say one for subscribers the Mobile Operator s customers who will need a mobile contract renewal within 60 days and thus have a Campaign with Messages geared towards renewing while another category of subscribers say those who are tend to go over their monthly SMS prepaid allotment and thus have a Campaign with Messages regarding a service up sell to purchasing unlimited SMS. These delineations for separate Campaigns with rules for different subscriber audiences or groups as Recipients are one type of segmentation.

In has one Pool of three Messages A B and C where Pool and the Class are treated as one in the same since there are no additional delineations for Classes shown. Whereas in there is one Pool of nine Messages which includes an A Class of three Messages A A and A a B Class with three Messages B B and B and a C Class also with three Messages C C and C. This one Pool and three individual Classes distinction can be used by Accounts for setting up sequencing rules for controlling the playback sequence of Messages and Actions sent to the Recipients using the SE .

For example using Classes A B and C assigned to a specific Campaign the Messages may have a sequencing playlist rule of either play each Class completely randomly play each Class in a given sequence e.g. A then B then C play the B Class Messages only after the A Class Messages accomplishes a defined goal of say getting the Recipient to perform a specific Action e.g. DTMF play A Class Messages 50 of the time play B Class Messages 30 of the time and C Class Messages 20 of the time and or play each Class Message based only on instructions from the MSE .

In for example the Account could setup a rule that creates three distinct Classes of A B and C unlike the previous example where Pool and the Class were the same. For this example each Class A B and C has a single Message ID A B and C inside respective of their parent Class A B and C . The Account could setup additional rules to play any Class Message A B or C inside the Pool completely randomly. Whereas in the example the same Account could instead setup a rule to play any Class Message A B or C inside the Pool also randomly but as depicted here set the EP to maintain a balance of 33.3 between the on going selection of the three Class choices to play over time. This balancing of the three Classes playback usage could be also given a plus minus tolerance factor of say 5 by the Account.

In addition the Account could place weighting on the three Classes differently say A 22 B 44 and C 34 with a 5 tolerance for each not shown so that more than the A Class Messages maintains a 17 29 playback ratio of the total Messages in one Pool the B Class Messages maintain a 39 49 playback ratio of the total Messages in one Pool and the C Class Messages maintain a 29 39 playback ratio of the total Messages in one Pool s playback.

In the example an Account has set up a rule to play A Class Messages then B Class Messages and then C Class Messages in a predefined sequence all within a single Pool . If each Class could have only one Message assigned inside it then this sequence will play an A Class Message then a B Class Message and then a C Class Message one Message on each subsequent call made by the same Recipient who is assigned to the Campaign and assuming a Frequency Occurrence setting of 1 1 . There could be further sequencing rules such as only play the B Class Message after the Recipient has responded to a particular call to Action from receiving the A Class Message.

Whereas in the example the Account has setup a rule to play A Class Messages the B Class Messages and then C Class Messages sequentially but with additional weighting where the rule knows to only play the B Class Messages after 50 of the A Class Messages within the total Messages in the one Pool of all A B and C Class Messages combined have been played either set to the total use for that Campaign and or setup to measure what a particular Recipient has received so far for Messages.

For example in the case in which the Account has elected to control what a particular Recipient receives as opposed to in total for the Campaign if there were only one A Class Message in the Pool that played the audio Have a nice day and with the weighting tied to the Recipient s usage that Recipient would receive that A Class Message twice before the sequence rules would then play the same Recipient a B Class Message once and then play a C Class Message once due to the A 50 B 25 and C 25 sequence and weighting.

If on the other hand the same Account had used the same A 50 B 25 and C 25 sequence and weighting parameters but instead set the Sequencing to be say overridden by a particular Recipient Action then this particular Action would trigger the subsequent Class Message to be played the next time the same Recipient was routed and scheduled to receive another Message from the EP .

In the Account has setup a sequence rule of A Class Messages then B Class Messages then C Class Messages and then D Class Messages whereas in the Account has setup a different sequence rule of A Class Messages then C Class Messages then D Class Messages and then B Class Messages. This allows the Account to apply different sequences rules to different segmentations of Recipients while still being able to reuse existing four Classes of A B C and D Messages.

For example the sequence setup in could be applied to Flagged Recipients who are known to be a certain demographic such as males. Whereas the sequence rules set up in could be applied to Flagged Recipients who are known to be females or males within a certain Geography. These Recipient Segments are exampled in more detail later under a Recipient Segmentation Module hereinafter RSM in and where the Account can create and define different segments.

In the Account has a sequence rule of play A Class Messages then B Class Messages and then C Class Messages. There are nine total Messages in the Campaign Pool three in the A Class A A and A three in the B Class B B and B and three in the C Class C C and C . The Account can setup a range of rules combining the logic explained in .

For example using the logic and weighting used in for the Account is allowing the playback sequence just from A Class Messages to B Class Messages to be either A A then B A A then B A A then B A A then B A A then B A A then B A A then B A A then B and A A then B because of A Class group weighting of 50 from applied to . If the Account did not care about equal usage of A A and A with in the A Class Messages then A A then B and so on are also playback sequence options.

A particular Campaign W with only one Message ID A assigned has only one Message Pool in use with only one Message Class inside and in use with only one Message ID A inside and in use. Another particular Campaign X with the two Message IDs A and B assigned could also have only one Message Pool and only one Message Class inside and in use.

However another particular Campaign Y with the same two Message IDs A and B assigned could instead have each Message ID assigned to separate Message Pools as in the two different Pools illustrated in where A has a Pool could contain either the A or B Message ID verses has a Pool and would contain the other Message ID not in the Pool . Both Pool and Pool are assigned to the same Campaign Y but now each Pool has only one Message ID each inside not shown instead of the four letters shown in .

Another particular Campaign Z with the same two Message IDs A and B assigned could have only Message Pool similar to but two different Classes within the Message Pool using Class and Class where Class could contain either the A or B Message ID verses Class would contain the other Message ID not in the Class not shown . Both Class and Class are assigned to the same Pool and to the same Campaign Z but now each Class has only one Message ID each inside not shown instead of the three letters per Class shown in . The above Pool and Class delineation examples for Message IDs in Campaigns W X Y and Z also hold true for Action IDs.

Returning back to the PRE depicted includes at least one rule generated in the PRRM Predetermined Recipient Rule Module . The PRE determines if a Flagged Recipient has been predetermined by any particular Account to belong to a predetermined Campaign and which typically has predetermined Messages or a predetermined Message Pool assigned to that particular Flagged Recipient .

The PRRM located within the CRM Server in collects maintains and stores all the data logic and instructions associated with any Recipients that have been pre assigned or predetermined to receive Messages without employing the use of the MSE for a particular Account and or a particular Campaign and pushes synchronized copies of all the necessary components Messages Actions rules programs channels etc. of that specific Campaign information to the PRE in for near real time usage in the Message Server .

The PRRM allows Accounts to manage Messages Actions and the associated rules that has been pre assigned to a particular Recipient for a particular Campaign Program and or Channel. Programs are Campaigns that are typically governed by the Mobile Operator Carrier in control of the Recipient s who connect to the CS and are generally created to fulfill specific categories of company goals and or functions such as 1 a Customer Relationship Management hereinafter CRM Program which includes customer service and Life Cycle Management hereinafter LCM 2 Up selling Programs which include upgrading a mobile subscriber s contract and or handset 3 Opt in and 4 Pay in Advance Programs. An example of a CRM Program would be setting up a Campaign specifically for delinquent subscribers where the Flagged Recipients receives a Message or Messages regarding their past due bill until the delinquent Recipient performs a predefined Action such as pays the balance or contacts customer service.

Opt in and Pay in Advance Programs generally have content or Messages that Recipients request to receive around categories of interest such as sports entertainment news travel weather financial news gossip health technology religion culture politics etc. For example the Recipient could learn about an Opt in and or Pay in Advance Program from a Message he she heard from a Campaign promoting the Mobile Operator Carriers Program options.

The Recipient can perform an Action such as pressing a DTMF command with their Communication Device to request more information about the Program or Program options. Depending on how the Campaign s Actions have been set up the Recipient s request to the MSP could return another audio Message with more information via the Connection or any other appropriate network connection such as the IMS LTE a SMS MMS type message from the OSS BSS SMSC which could be sent from the Operator Gateway Server via the TCP IP connection a WAP page from the WAP Server via either TCP IP or an email from the CRM Server and or send what is called an External Communication request from the CRM Server to a specific Account for such things as an email or piece of direct mail to then be sent directly from the specific Account offering that particular Program and or Channel more below .

Recipients could use an Action such as pressing a DTMF command to pay for a Program and or a Specific Channel in increments such as monthly. For example a Program could include Messages regarding current sports scores from ESPN . These ESPN Messages could be further designated as ESPN Sports Scores Channels for different sports. The Channels could all belong to one Program and or a range of Programs that Recipients could sign up and pay for. Depending on how the Programs and or their subordinate Channels are set up the corresponding Messages can also be set up to play at specific times and or as certain events alerts justify. These instructions can be set up by the Accounts and or the Recipients and are explained in more details in .

If step is answered Yes then the Call is routed to Exchange Platform where a MSP checks Recipient ID in PRE for rules and any associated Message IDs . If the answer to a Found Recipient ID in PRE with associated Message ID is Yes then a prompt is sent where a Message Server returns the appropriate Message clip ID and associated Action ID s . If step is answered No then a prompt is sent to an Employ MSE and if necessary the OSE to determine the Message ID selection and ASE for associated Action ID s explained in detail in and .

The MSE should send a single Message ID to a Message to Play . If step is answered No as in there is no Message ID or if there is no Message found associated with that particular Message ID then a Message Service Platform returns routing of call to Originating Switch or MSC step is taken. If the answer to step is Yes as in there is a Message associated with the ID and an available Message to play then a Message Server returns selected Message ID and associated Action ID s if known to the Signal Media Server where a Message played and waits for Recipient Action DTMF is the next step.

If the answer to the query was there a Valid Action DTMF from Recipient results in No during the duration of time that the Connection remains open then a Message Server stores the Recipient Action non Action data for Usage Tracking . If the answer to query is Yes then an Asynchronous follow up Action s is performed e.g. SMS MMS WAP IVR Email Offers direct mail outbound call etc. and sent back to the Recipient . Next a Message Server stores Recipient Action Non Action data for Usage Tracking is performed. Then the Message Service Platform returns routing of call to Originating Switch or MSC .

If the answer to query is Yes then the Message Server uses the combined results of the MSE by invoking several cumulative queries including an Employ TE Employ SE Employ Segmentation Group Rules and Employ Account Engine and BBBE . If any of these steps or result in a No answer then the MSE continues to calculate the remaining data in the other steps. The Employ TE involves the Campaign s associated rules for Timing including Frequency Occurrence and was explained earlier in . The Employ SE involves associated rules for Sequencing and was explained earlier in .

The Employ Account Engine and BBBE involves the AE in concert with the BBBE . The AE manages which Accounts have access to other Accounts and the BBBE manages the access for those Accounts who do have permission for such things as bidding on available Message Inventory data collected by the RE such as Usage Tracking data and Recipient data. For example Accounts can bid for available Message Inventory that they have been granted access to and or bid based on specific Segmentation Group Rules that they have setup. These Segmentation Group Rules are utilized by the Employ Segmentation Group Engine and is explained in detail in the following .

The cumulative results of these rules and associated instructions are passed to step as a list of prioritized Message IDs from those that have been played the most to played the least if known . If the answer to the query Do these Cumulative MSE Rules Result in 1 Message ID is answered Yes then the OSE is Employed for Messages and this step is explained in detail in . If the answer to query is answered No then the results are passed to the next query to ask if A Single Message ID is selected in time . If the MSE results had no Message ID or if the MSE took too long to perform the results based on a time completion requirement known in this step then the answer here is No and then the call is routed back to step in the previous .

If the answer to step is answered Yes as in there is a single Message ID and it was identified within the completion time requirements known to step then that Message ID is passed to the step where an Action Selection Engine is Employed . The Action Selection Engine first checks to see if the Message ID has a predetermined single initial Action pre assigned to it not shown in illustration . If the initial Action is not pre assigned typically a DTMF with corresponding SMS then the ASE performs cumulative rule instructions similar to the MSE to determine a priority list of possible and appropriate initial Actions.

The Message ID and cumulative ASE results of these rules and associated instructions are passed to query as a list of prioritized initial Action IDs associated with the Message ID from those Action IDs that have been used by Recipients the most to the least used if known . If the query Was 1 initial Action ID selected by ASE is answered Yes then the selected Message ID and its list of associated Action IDs are passed to the step where an Optimization Selection Engine Employed for Actions is preformed and a similar in logic as the steps for selecting a single Message ID by the OSE explained in detail in .

If the answer to query is answered No then the selected Message ID and associated Action ID ASE results are passed to the next step where A Single Initial Action ID is selected and assigned to the selected Message ID. If the ASE results had no Action ID or if the ASE took too long to perform based on a time completion requirements then step still passes the selected Message ID along to step without any assigned initial Action and the issue is tracked for correction by the EP explained under Workflow later . In the next step the Message Server returns the selected Message ID and associated Action ID s if known to step back in .

The reason some steps such as step allow for more than one Action ID to be sent is for Campaigns with preset Subsequent Action sequences and not to be confused with the previous steps to assign a single initial Action to a Message ID. For example the initial assigned Action to a Message ID could be for a specific DTMF with a specific SMS Action Response as well as a subsequent pre assigned and specific WAP page URL. This information would be tracked and utilized as a predetermined Action when the Recipient responded to the assigned SMS.

The cumulative results get passed to the Results incorporated into cumulative targeting rule results step which incorporates all the necessary logic instructions and associated data to contribute to the MSE which in turn is passed to part back on .

If the answer to query is answered Messages then the list of Message IDs gets passed to an Optimization Engine rules for Messages set to active query. If the answer is No then a Select Least Played Message ID within group and transmit step is invoked. If the set of Message IDs in step has more than one Message ID tied for equaling the least played Message this step selects randomly a single Message ID from this list of least played Messages and that single Message ID is then passed back to step on .

If the answer to query is Yes then the next query asked is Has any Message ID version met a performance threshold . This performance threshold is predetermined and set up by the Accounts using the OSM . For example if an Account setup a performance threshold of say one thousand plays for a particular Campaign then step would pass any Message IDs with one thousand plays or more on to an Appropriate Message ID transmitted step. If there are more than one Message ID tied for equaling the most played Messages this step selects randomly a single Message ID from this list of most played Messages and that single Message ID is passed back to step on .

If the answer to query is that None of the Message IDs in the list have met the performance threshold then the entire list of Message IDs are passed to an Employ optimization goals with the associated weight and score give to each factor function where this step can have a rule to either send the entire list of Message IDs or reduce the list to some preset quantity of say no more than the ten most played .

The following six steps are employed a Prioritize Initial Action DTMF response a Prioritize Call back rate a Prioritize Website Page Views metric a Prioritize Reply rate to SMS MMS a Prioritize WAP URL click thru rate and a Prioritize Customizable metric to provide cumulative results that get passed to a Single Message ID version selected based on cumulative optimization goals associated weights and scoring function.

For example if ten Message IDs where collectively sent from step and the only active rule was select the Message ID with the highest initial Action DTMF response relating to step then the other five functions and would be ignored and the Message ID with the highest initial Action DTMF response would become the single Message ID selected in function . The OSM rules can add logic and Boolean operators. For example a rule could first state take the Message IDs with the top four highest initial Action DTMF response and then second re prioritize those four Message IDs based on the Messages that performed best at generating website page views from step .

The single Message ID with cumulative best performing rule results would pass from step to the next step where a Message Server returns selected Message ID and Associated Action ID s if known . Associated Action IDs meaning some Message IDs may only have the initial Action pre assigned to them where some others may have the initial Action and some Subsequent Actions pre assigned to them and further some other Message IDs may be setup to allow the ASE to select the most appropriate Action s . The Message Server returns selected Message ID and Associated Action ID s if known on to step back on .

If the answer to is Yes then the Action ID is passed to a Action Response Retrieve and send SMS MMS with usage tracking and any additional instructions set up by the Account and EP function that is invoked. Action Responses are subset of Actions and refer to an Action sent back to the Recipient in response to the Action taken by the Recipient and the additional instructions set up by the Account and EP can be for such things as employing a Tiny URLs and or Tiny phone numbers explained earlier Subsequent Action s and or instructions when and where to employ the MSE ASE and OSE .

If the answer to query is No then the Action ID is passed to the next query to ask if an Action outbound phone call request . If the answer is Yes to query then the Action ID is passed to an Action Response Transmit call request to call center through method set up by Account with Usage Tracking and any additional instructions set up by the Account and EP function. If the answer to query is No then the Action ID is passed to the next query to ask is Action email request if on file .

If the answer to query is Yes then the Action ID is passed to a Action Response Retrieve and send email with Usage Tracking and any additional instructions set up by the Account and EP function that is invoked. If the answer to query is No then the Action ID is passed to the next query to ask is Action direct mail response . If the answer to is Yes then the Action ID is passed to an Action Response Transmit mailing instructions to direct mail house if address known with Usage Tracking and any additional instructions set up by the Account and EP function that is invoked.

If the answer to is No then the Action ID is passed to a Customizable Action function that is invoked. At step an Account can create rules for a catch all Action for when the Action ID or IDs that were thought to be recognized in query but passed through all available Action lookup step queries e.g. queries and without an Action ID assignment found. Then a rule setup by the Account could be to employ a default Action e.g. a SMS with the text Please try again to invoke the No Action taken function or to invoke some set of rules whereby Actions are selected from an available Pool of Actions randomly and or per a specific Campaign Pool of Actions and Action Rules.

From the Dashboard an Account can use an Account Management module to assign and monitor login permissions to Members of that particular Account and a Members Roles module to assign different roles and permissions to Members of that particular Account and to other Accounts .

Additional Dashboard functionality comes from a Workflow module a Data Field Mapping module and the Recipient Segmentation Module hereinafter RSM all explained with later more Figures. The TRM allows Accounts to manage the ratio and timing of Messages played to a Recipient in a particular Campaign the SRM allows Accounts to manage the Message sequencing within a particular Campaign and or across Campaigns.

In addition the Account can also manage almost all the Actions from the Dashboard including a SMS MMS Management module a WAP Management module a Offer Management Module in an External Communications Management module in an IVR Management module the ASRM along with the earlier described Account Management Campaign Management Message Management Action Management Billing Budgeting and Billing Module and Reporting Module .

The MSRM in and back in in an embodiment collects maintains and stores all the data logic and instructions associated with any Messages that will make use of the MSE for a particular Account and or Campaign and pushes synchronized copies of all the necessary components Messages Actions rules programs channels etc. of that Campaign information to the MSE in for near real time usage in the Message Server .

The ASRM in and in an embodiment collects maintains and stores all the information logic and instructions associated with any Campaigns that will make use of the ASE for a particular Account and or Campaign and pushes synchronized copies of all the necessary components of that Campaign information to the ASE in for near real time usage in the Message Server . The OSM in and back in collects maintains and stores all the data logic and instructions associated with any Campaigns that will make use of the OSE for a particular Account and or Campaign and pushes synchronized copies of all the necessary components Recipient Segmentations Optimization Rules etc. of that Campaign information to the OSE in for near real time usage in the Message Server .

The Message Server depicted back in collects maintains and stores all the data logic and instructions associated with any Account Campaign Message and Action and pushes synchronized copies of all the necessary data to the CRM Server in for interactive usage in performance tracking optimization segmentation reports and billing and or custom Account requests and subsequent management of the data.

The RSM allows Accounts to segment the potential Recipients into segments and has been explained in and is explained in more detail in several Figures ahead including . Next is the TRM . The TRM allows Accounts to setup such timing rules as the Frequency Occurrence for a particular Recipient and or for a particular Campaign and segment additional timing perimeters and rules such as the time of day day of the week for a particular Campaign and or Campaign element that were explained earlier. Next is the SRM also explained earlier included in followed by the last step depicted the BBBM .

The BBBM allows Accounts to set rules thresholds and limits on their budgets billing and bidding for a particular time period a particular Campaign a particular Message Message ID a particular Action Action ID and or some combinations of these parameters. In addition an Account can also set the same rules thresholds and limits to be placed on other Accounts that are tied into the EP Account by Account whereby those other Accounts may wish to participate in the usage of the EP that is connected to a specific CS where a specific Mobile Operator Carrier and or some other specific Account has control over the final communication link to a particular Recipient or group of particular Recipients such as Verizon s mobile subscribers. There are other factors and methods for using Targeting that will be explained in more detail in several Figures including and .

The Account can also use a Message Library module option to review and or search existing Message IDs and Message Pools and or Message Classes. Usage of the RSM and the SGRM a collection of Segmentation Rules will be explained in detail both by flowcharts ahead in and examples with the user interface starting on .

From the RSM an Account can access a Segmentation Overview that explains the purposes and functionality of using the RSM and a Search function to search for existing Recipient Segmentation Rule s . A Create Modify Segmentation Rule s function allows Accounts to create new rules from scratch and or select existing rules. An Assign Segment Rule s to Campaign ID s an Assign Segment Rule s to Message ID s and an Assign Segment Rule s to Action ID s each allow an Account the ability to pick and choice where and how to apply existing Recipient Segmentation rules and or a newly created rule.

An Account can create a new Recipient Segmentation Rule for entire Campaign or a Campaign element such as a particular Message a particular Message Class a particular Message Pool and or a particular Action. Recipient Segmentation Rules need at least one piece of Recipient Data and are typically tied to at least one Campaign element but can be stored and re used independently. Rules can incorporate thresholds weighting and prioritize the Recipient data into a number of Recipient categories. These types of Recipient categories for creating rules accessible by the Account include a Demographics module option a Psychographics module option a Location and Motion module option a Behavioral module option a Contract History module option and or a Customizable and Requests module option.

The Demographics module option can include such individual Recipient data items as age DOB gender race ethnicity home address work address marriage status sexual orientation occupation religion work industry and the like. The Psychographics module option can include a Recipient s current and past personality tastes interests values lifestyle opinions attitudes and the like.

The Location and Motion module option can include the Recipient s current location including an elevation and this information can be calculated and measured against the Recipient s previous location in increments of time and or distance to also determine the Recipient s current past and or future velocity. These data points can also be measured and compared against historical data of the same Recipient and or other Recipients who have traveled the same path distance velocity and or time pattern to create unique set of data points for targeting relevant information. In addition these comparative data points can help predict likely destination s when compared along with data from the current starting point and the current location of the Recipient .

Some Mobile Operator Carrier data comes from the Flagged Recipient s calls that are routed to the EP . This collected and utilized data can consist of one or more call features associated with the communication. For example one or more of the call feature s could be determined from the call itself such as the originating number the intended destination number the time and data of the call.

When Mobile Operators Carriers cannot provide geo location data the Message Server rule engines will look for other cues when assigning a default geography for a Recipient including any available billing address data and or called number data.

The Location and Motion module can also be set up to analyze the call history of each Flagged Recipient s communication device and determine that a significant portion of the calls are made to for example a pizza parlor. This information can be set up in advance with Mobile Operator Carriers and or the data could be pulled as needed into the EP from the CS typically stored in the OSS BSS SMSC . Accordingly with this information the MSE based on rules pre established in the MSRM could select either one or more pizza parlors and or food related Message IDs to play as advertisements to the Flagged Recipient .

This can also include such tools as either location sensing technology responding to geographical cues and or a tool that can infer location based upon past location data patterns and where available incorporate the Recipient s phone number and or the Called B Party s phone number. For example a particular Calling A Party who has a New York City cell phone number but whose location data from the Mobile Operator Carrier s O MSC shows that the caller is nearly always in Los Angeles could be served Messages based on a set of rules whereby either the Calling A Party is always treated like a Los Angeles subscriber even though he she has a New York cell number is treated like the typical Los Angeles subscriber when calling from Los Angeles as long as a certain percentage of current phone calls are made from within Los Angeles and or some other set of rules that could define the difference between the pattern of calls made by a typical resident of a particular region verses the pattern of calls typical of someone who is just visited that particular region.

If the Calling A Party is always calling NYC from outside that area code then NYC specific Messages could be targeted towards him her as a potential visitor such as travel packages or hotel rates. The MSRM rules employed for targeting this Recipient can also include past purchases made using or routed through the EP inquiries from of Messages directed to this Recipient times associated with follow up Actions and what types of Messages and or Campaigns the Recipient has responded to better. Furthermore successful Campaigns that are based on a particular region could expand to subscribers known to have similar calling patterns. These calling patterns could go beyond geography to be based on any similar data patterns collected such as time of day.

The Behavioral module option can include all the Recipient s other collectable behavioral data conscious or unconscious including travel behaviors history and patterns mobile communication behaviors e.g. beyond the Contract History history and patterns EP usage behaviors history and patterns purchase behavior history and patterns and the like.

The Behavioral module as well as the other module options differentiate between the change in relevancy over time between past data behaviors and likely current interests. For example historical behavioral data could support that a particular Recipient who is known to play games on their communication device mobile handset is more likely or less likely to have an extended period of interest in games relative to his her increased or decreased usage.

The Behavioral module is also designed to collect data that can help gauge the interest by a particular Recipient Segment regarding a topic or behavior over time. Each data point can have a different rate of propensity reduction over time. The propensity reduction factors can be determined by evaluating a particular Recipient s Actions or non Actions and then testing patterns from which the EP can calculate the relative differences in data behaviors over time.

In another example of historical behavioral data a test group of Recipients could use an Action that is a response to allow future plays or to not allow future plays a particular holiday focused Message or holiday focused Campaign. This Recipient historical behavioral data could be extrapolated over other Recipients that fall within like Recipient segments.

The Contract History module option can include any Account data known about a particular Recipient including current and past phone plans with length of contract prepay or post pay data plans and usage calling patterns friends and family plans SMS MMS usage Web Usage WAP usage type of handset s used handset software version used how often updated and or upgraded the number of calls in customer service any questions and or complaints credit issues Mobile Operator Carrier s website usage number portability history applications downloaded voicemail usage email usage and or any other data that a particular Account on the EP would be willing to employ use and or share. The Account that uploads the data can also setup data access rules associated with each data point regarding its discretion or setup restricted access for a particular Account Member another particular Account for a restricted period of time for a fee and or setup a rule to share only needed components of the data to for example the MSE selection criteria utilizing the AE and the BBBE and not directly available to other Accounts and or by any other combination or reasonable sharing manner a particular Account would want to employ.

In an embodiment the at least one MSRM receives attributes specific to the communication device used by a Recipient such as the manufacturer make model applications currently active the current software version running and then delivers the Recipient a customer service Message or an advertisement Message incorporating that data into the rule logic employed by the MSE .

Mobile Operator Carrier s subscribers could also be targeted based upon the type of calling device protocol being used CDMA TDMA GSM VoIP etc. . These attributes could be Account provided information such as the prior calling and SMS history in their OSS BSS SMSC made by that particular communication device that particular Recipient over the life of the contract and or that particular Recipient s entire calling plan circle etc. In additional rule logic could be setup to incorporate the Handset Provider Manufacturer s warranty the Recipient s purchases and other Messages responded to and or the association of keywords or meta tags between similar Messages. This sensitive data could be restricted and or limited to certain Accounts Division Management and or Members Roles more details on roles below .

The Customizable and Requests module option can include all other types of Recipient data not including in the other options such as a particular Recipient s Facebook or MySpace data where the Recipient can decide which Accounts can or cannot see the Recipient s data. For example a particular Recipient may want to make certain data about him her known to the EP in general or to a particular Account such as a retailer like Best Buy or a concert venue like the Staples Center so that Messages and or offers are more tailored and relevant to their personality and likes.

An Account can also request and or bid on access to particular data and or the ability to target a particular segment. If a particular Recipient Segmentation is not available as an option for a particular Mobile Operator Carriers CS and or some other particular CS the Account can put in a formal request using the Customizable and Requests module option. If the particular Recipient Segmentation was available the Account could use the BBBM explained in more detail in the next Figure. In addition third party data services e.g. APIs RSS feeds news wires etc. can be feed to and initialized by the EP . These third parties could be non Accounts or integrated as a participating Account as in a Content Provider .

These segmentation module options and can be employed independently or collectively. Additional instructions can be added to each data point independently using the Thresholds module option and a Weighting and Rules module option. The Threshold module option can be used for a range of thresholds such as a particular Threshold for Date of Birth DOB range where a particular Recipient s DOB or a Group of particular Recipients DOB must be within a certain range to receive a particular Campaign Message and or Action. For example this threshold may be for a Campaign geared for teenagers or a Campaign geared towards people over the age of 65 etc.

The threshold can be set for an entire Campaign for a group of Recipients to receive a particular Message. The Segmentation rule settings can be setup with Boolean operators to either incorporate or not incorporate a range of data points threshold and weights. Another Threshold rule could be setup to limit the number of Recipients that are selected to receive a particular Campaign ID a particular Message ID and or receive a particular Action ID before moving to the subsequent ID e.g. Campaign Message or Action within the Sequence Rule.

The Weighting and Rules module option can be setup to place a variety of weighting prioritization and or rules to the collective data points measurements and cumulative results. For example more weight could be assigned to a particular Recipient with a relatively new phone contracts say within the last week where then a particular Campaign targeted for voicemail setup could be assigned.

The Campaign could be setup to go further and assigned Messages that evolve from a generic welcome Message to a generic Message with a reminder to setup their new voicemail to a particular Message with a specific call to Action for setting up their new voicemail as the time and or number of made phone calls by a particular Recipient incrementally increases from day zero and or from the number of calls made zero.

The manner in which an Account applies rules such as the above Recipient Segmentation rules along with the associated Thresholds and the associated Weighting and Rules creates a single Segmentation Rule that are calculated cumulatively in near real time. The Account can combine individual Segmentation Rules in groups called Segmentation Group Rules where rules could be applied to calculate the relevance between the separate Segmentation Rules.

New and modified individual Segmentation Rules can be previewed against an existing Campaign to see the results and or saved with the Preview Save function. These Recipient Segmentation Rules along with Segmentation Rules for Accounts Billing Budgeting Bidding Timing and Sequencing can be group together with other Rules utilizing Segmentation Group Rules.

For example individual Segmentation Rules can become layers within the Segmentation Group Rule can be weighted against other Segmentation Rules in a stack. For example one particular Segmentation Rule and the first in the stack may only include a rule for potential Recipients who are known to be Males And who are known to live in California while a second and subsequent Segmentation Rule in the stack may say tabulate the number of potential Recipients from Rule who s known DOB puts them between the ages of 21 and 25 years of age while a third and subsequent rule in the stack may say also tabulate the number of potential Recipients from Rule who s known DOB puts them between the ages of 26 and 30.

The results of Rule and Rule could be compared and the combined number of potential Recipients from Rule and could be for example 100 but the size of Rule was 66 potential Recipients and the size of Rule was 34 potential recipients then the disproportion sizes of potential Recipients could also be incorporated into a Rule in the stack where Rule s potential Recipients are distributed Messages at a higher rate that coincides with their disproportionate size to Rule s size or Rule could instead balance the disproportion by reducing the Rule size of 66 down to the same 34 size of Rule s by employing some other prioritization logic and or randomization. There is more on Segmentation Group Rules later.

For example the Accounts through the EP can setup Campaigns that are assigned to a particular Predetermined Recipient or a predetermined group of particular Recipients that can be defined within the same segmentation group s and utilizing the PRRM Predetermined Recipient Rule Module option. Some of these Campaigns are referred to as Programs and are explained in more detail later .

On the other hand the Account can instead let the MSE select a particular Message to be played to a particular Recipient based on a setup rules using the MSRM option. A Search function allows Accounts to lookup existing rules and examples.

In general A Create Modify Rule s allows an Account create and or modify an existing rule. An Assign Rule to Campaign ID s an Assign Rule to Message ID s and an Assign Rule to Action ID s each allow an Account the ability to pick and choose where and how to apply existing rules and or a newly created rule.

The Account can select from a range of rule options including the TRM timing option for time based rules the SRM sequencing option for sequencing based rules the BBBM budget bid option for billing budgeting and bidding rules the RSM recipient option for Recipient dependent rules and a Customizable and Requests module option.

The Customizable and Requests module option allows an Account to create and or suggest any rule not covered by the other rule options. For example an Account could use the Customizable and Requests module option to suggest a new rule to all other Accounts globally where all other Accounts could weigh in on their Member s thoughts regarding the merits and or lack of merits for such a new tool to be created.

The Action Management function allows Accounts to attach Actions to a particular rule under a particular Campaign set of Campaign IDs and or for a particular Message ID or ID s . The Account can instead use the ASRM to assign the initial Action and or any Subsequent Action to be assigned by the ASE . The Account can also use the OSM to assign the OSE to a particular rule to a particular Campaign set of Campaign IDs a particular Message ID or ID s a particular Class or Classes of Message ID s and or a particular Pool or Pools of Message ID s . New and modified rules can be previewed against an existing Campaign to see the results and or saved with the Preview Save function.

Some of these Campaigns are referred to as Programs. For example there is an Opt in Program where Recipients can voluntarily elect to join and or purchase a Campaign Program with specifically requested content and or content categories. An EP user interface allows Accounts to set up these Programs for Recipients and is depicted in detail later. A collection of content that a Recipient can request within a particular content category such as sports news weather entertainment financial news humor and or other content are called Opt in Channels.

The PRRM is accessible from the Dashboard and through the main management menus and . The instructions regarding which Recipients will receive these Campaigns Programs and or Channels are setup using the PRRM option and thus assignment to a Recipient or group of Recipients receiving a Message from the PRE instead of receiving a Message from the MSE as explained previously . Actions can be assigned the Message ID s for a particular Program but can also be assigned by utilizing the ASE and the OSE for the initial Action and or any Subsequent Action.

From the RSM an Account can access a Predetermined Recipient Rule Overview that explains the purposes and functionality of using the PRRM and the PRE . A Search function can be utilized to search for existing Predetermined Recipient Rules Campaigns Programs Channels and related Messages and Actions. A Create Modify Predetermined Rules function allows Accounts to create new rules from scratch and or select existing rules. An Assign Predetermined Rule to Campaign ID s an Assign Predetermined Rule to Message ID s and an Assign Predetermined Rule to Action ID s each allow an Account the ability to pick and choice where and how to apply existing rules and or a newly created rule.

The options for assigning a Predetermined Recipient Rule to a particular Campaign set of Campaign IDs a particular Message ID or ID s a particular Class or Classes of Message ID s a particular Pool or Pools of Message ID s and or Action ID s include a Customer Service module option a Promotions module option a Up selling module option a Purchased Content module option a Polling module option an Advertising module option and a Customizable module option.

The Customer Service module option can include Campaigns with Messages geared toward customer service issues and can be tracked for the effectiveness in terms of Actions taken. For example there a costs that are directly associated with mobile subscribers and or customers having to call a Customer Service call center to resolve questions and or obtain information. The EP can help eliminate some of those calls into an Account s Customer Service call center by providing Campaigns and Messages relevant to questions that are typically asked a particular events such as new service overages contract expirations etc. These Campaigns can be compared with metrics to determine their effectiveness at improving mobile subscribers here Recipient s customer satisfaction and yet reducing the cost of calls coming into the Customer Service call center.

The Promotions module option can include Campaigns with Messages geared toward promoting a particular Account and or service or product offered by a particular Account typically the Account who controls the MSC within the CS where the communication call originated but this could be other Accounts .

The Up selling module option can include Campaigns with Messages geared towards up selling Recipient s of a particular Account with a particular product and or service to another product and or service from the same Account typically the Account who controls the MSC in the CS where the communication call originated.

The Purchased Content module option can include Campaigns with Messages geared towards Opt in Programs and Channels explained earlier but could also include specific content for viewing reviewing uploading and or downloading. For example it could include downloadable ringtones wallpapers or Ringback tone options for Recipients .

The Polling module option can include Campaigns with Messages geared towards collecting Recipient opinions feedback and or data. An Account could offer to pay Recipients to take polls in general pay per question pay per results and or offer some sort of exchange for participation such as free minutes services SMS wallpapers ringtones etc.

Most Campaigns with advertising will likely be assigned by the MSE and not from the PRE but some advertisements can be pre assigned to Recipients using the Advertising module option. This module option can include Campaigns with Messages geared towards Recipients to receive ads in exchange for their participation for such things as free minutes SMS data usage and or products and service discounts from a particular Account. The Customizable module option allows the Accounts the ability to create Campaigns for Predetermined Recipients not covered by the other options but where there is sufficient data points and content to create or request such a rule.

The Accounts can incorporate additional rules whereby the Message IDs for a Predetermined Recipient can be further selected by instructions employed by the RSM the SRM the BBBM and the TRM as depicted in the next Figure. New and modified rules can be previewed against an existing Campaign to see the results and or saved with the Preview Save function.

The SGRM function is accessible from the Dashboard and through the main management menus and . From the SGRM function an Account can access a SGRM Overview that explains the purposes and functionality of using the Target Management . A Create Modify Segmentation Group Rule s function allows Accounts to create new Segmentation Group Rules from scratch and or select existing Segmentation Group Rules. An Assign Segmentation Group Rule to Campaign ID s an Assign Segmentation Group Rule to Message ID s and an Assign Segmentation Group Rule to Action ID s each allow an Account the ability to pick and choice where and how to apply existing Segmentation Group Rules and or a newly created Segmentation Group Rule.

Rules incorporate the collective settings an Account places using a range of data options along with associated thresholds and weighting. Before a Segmentation Group Rule can be applied to a particular Campaign or Campaign element it needs at least one piece of data from the range of options including the TRM timing option the SRM sequencing option an Account Rules module option the BBBM budget bid option the RSM recipient option and or a Customizable module option.

The TRM the SRM the BBBM and RSM have all been explained earlier. The Account Rules module allows a particular Account to limit and or selectively allow other outside Accounts to access. This controlled Account access can either be to all Recipients where the particular Account setting up the rule controls the Message playback controls the Message access and or controls the Message inventory. These Account Rules are incorporated into the AE in the MSE along with the BBBE in step depicted in the example. The Customizable and Requests module option was explained earlier in .

These Segmentation Group Rule and data options TRM SRM Account Rules BBBM RSM and Customizable and Requests can be employed independently or collectively. Additional instructions can be added to each rule and data option independently using the Thresholds module option and the Weighting and Rules module option. The Threshold module option can be used for a range of thresholds such as a particular Threshold used for Message sequencing where there is threshold for the number of plays a Message ID requires before playing a subsequent Message ID setup as a series of Messages to play sequentially.

In another embodiment the Segmentation Group Rule settings can be set up to either incorporate or not incorporate the Action measurement options and instructions if a preset performance threshold is met.

The Weighting and Rules module option can be set up to place a variety of weighting prioritize and rules to the collective measures and results. For example more weight could be assigned to particular Message IDs Message Class and or Message Pools within a sequence as explained earlier . New and modified Segmentation Group Rule s can be previewed against an existing Campaign and identified database such as Recipients for rules incorporating Recipients to see the results and or saved with the Preview Save function.

An Action Management function is accessible from the Dashboard and through the main management menus and . From the Action Management function an Account can access an Action Overview that explains the purposes and functionality of using Actions. A Create Modify Action function allows Accounts to create a new Action from scratch and or select existing Actions. An Assign Action to Campaign ID s an Assign Action to Message ID s and an Assign to Previous Action ID s each allow the Account the ability to pick and choice where and how to apply existing Actions and or a newly created Action.

Most Message IDs get sent to a Recipient with at least one pre assigned Action but the Account can decide not to assign any Actions such as for a Message that just says Thank you for using AT T and or there can be a sequence of pre assigned Actions. The first Action that can be taken by a Recipient within the Action sequence is referred to as an Initial Action. This initial Action is typically a DTMF but can be a voice prompt as explained earlier.

As mentioned earlier other Actions can be pre assigned by the Accounts to follow the Initial Action as pre assigned Subsequent Actions. Some of these Subsequent Actions are Action Responses that refers to a specific subset of Actions that are sent back to the Recipient in response to the Action taken by the Recipient and the additional instructions set up by the Account and the EP . The Account can create an Action and apply its assigned usage for entire Campaign but more typically to a particular Message and or a particular previous Action as the Subsequent Action. The Account can create and or modify an existing Action using an Initial Action DTMF module option a SMS MMS module option a WAP module option an External Communications module option a Web URL module option and or a Customizable module option.

The Initial Action DTMF module option is for setting up the initial Action that the Recipient is directed to take during the audio Message playback image video or similar and is typically a DTMF keypad response . The Account can assign a specific key press a set of key presses or allow any key to be pressed to reflect the appropriate Action taken by the Recipient . The Account can also use and or assign voice prompts to work with or instead of keypad assignments for the initial Account or any Subsequent Action.

The SMS MMS module option is used for setting up the instructions for a particular Action with a SMS or MMS response along with any desired Subsequent Action such as go to this particular WAP page or Web URL. The WAP module option is used for uploading and or creating the necessary contents and instructions for a WAP page which typically follows a previous Action as a Subsequent Action.

The External Communications module option allows the Account to setup External Communications and is explained in more detail in . The Web URL module option is used for uploading and or creating the necessary contents and instructions for a Web page URL which typically follows a previous Action as a Subsequent Action. The Customizable module option can include all other types of Actions not including in the other Action module options such as an Action for sending an email direct coupon a poll etc.

Additional Action instructions can be added to each Action to make use of these data using the Thresholds module option and the Weighting and Rules module option. The Threshold module option can be used for a range of thresholds such as a particular threshold for the number of plays a Message ID is required to meet as an adequate performance threshold and or as a performance threshold for all the Messages within a particular Campaign before A B testing another Action version. For example this Action Version could be preset to come from a particular Campaign a particular Action Class and or a particular Action Pool. Another Threshold rule could be setup to limit the number of Action IDs that are passed through the OSE to say no more than ten Action IDs versions for making a final Action ID selection.

These Actions module options and are tracked and measured independently and collectively as a unit against and relative to a particular Campaign Message ID Message Class Message Pool Action Class Action Pool Previous Action and or Subsequent Action to measure their effectiveness and success rates against different Recipient Segmentations Timing Rules Budget Rules Bidding Rules Account Rules Sequencing Rules and Real time Reporting by utilizing the RE .

The Weighting and Rules module option can be set up to place a variety of weighting prioritizations and rules to the collective measurements and results. For example a particular SMS Action ID may be far more effective among a particular Demographic at a particular time following a particular Action when relatively compared to other Actions employed within the same rules Campaign Message Class Message Pool etc. and thus more weight could be applied towards the favorable segments.

The EP measures an Action s success and this data can also be incorporated into the selection of a further Action being assigned and or selected by the OSE . An Action s relative usage can also be measured and incorporated in the selection of Action s by the OSE . For example if the OSE needs to select a single initial Action to a particular Message ID but where the combined preset rules accept the last rule provides a result with more than one Action ID tied for the best Action ID to assign to a Message ID then the last rule in this example could be to select the Action ID that has been assigned the least the least assigned with this Campaign and or least assigned with this particular Message ID. New and modified Optimization Rules can be previewed against an existing Campaign to see the results and or saved with the Preview Save function.

For example the External Communication Action could be in response to the DTMF or be triggered by a series of Actions that indicate the need for an External Communication such as a brochure being mailed from a particular Account s place of business or manufacturer directly to the Recipient s home and or the Recipient s business.

Using an External Communications Management hereinafter ECM module an Account can access a range of module options for create and or editing External Communications such as an Outbound Call Management module option an Offer Management module option a Direct Mail Management module option and a Customizable External Communication module option.

The Outbound Call Management module allows an Account to setup a Campaign with an Action that triggers a notification to place a return phone call to the particular Recipient who requested the Action Response. This return phone call to the Recipient can either come directly from the Account be routed and to some third party the Account has assigned the responsibility come from an automated source and or some combination of appropriate methods.

An outbound call as controlled by the Outbound Call Management module means that a third party such as the Account or a contracted call center company calls the Recipient s communication device once the Recipient has ended the call on which they originally requested the call via an Action such as DTMF. The Outbound Call Management module can be configured at for an Account Campaign Segmentation Group s Message Pool s Action Pool s Class es Message s or Action s .

For example a Campaign can have one Message which does not offer the Recipient an outbound call option and another Message which does offer an outbound call option. Using the Outbound Call Management module the Account configures the connection with the party which will make the outbound calls to the Recipient . Such a connection can be a real time API connection in which data is transferred immediately after the triggering Action by the Recipient or can be transmitted in bulk electronically or by other means periodically to the party making the outbound.

The Offer Management module is also accessible from the main Dashboard and allows an Accounts to create manage Offer Codes that can be stored as data value s with associated characteristics and or other track able features for purposes of reporting their redemption counts redemption rates and or characteristics of the Recipient Segmentations who redeemed the Offer Code s .

An Offer as managed by the Offer Management module is a unique component that can be associated with either a Message or an Action where an Account wants to define additional parameters principally for tracking and reporting purposes. When an Offer Code is used it can be tracked either in bulk or on an individual Recipient basis by the RE .

For example an Account could setup a particular Campaign where a unique Offer Code would be generated per Recipient who responds with the appropriate Action request to a particular Offer. The Campaign could have an audio Message that tells Recipients Get a free Ringtone from Sprint today by pressing any key or by simply saying Ringtone now and we ll send you a private offer by SMS. When a Recipient presses a key for the DTMF Action request or says the voice prompt Action request Ringtone a SMS with a unique and trackable Offer code is sent to the corresponding Recipient .

Once the unique Offer Code is generated the EP stores the necessary data and transferred a copy to the Account and or any third party they have pre assigned a designated role during the follow up. This copy of necessary data can happen as each event occurs in the EP or can be setup to be trigger in some other increments such as hourly. This data copy may be required to support Web WAP or phone based transactions in which the offer code was used. It is also possible to generate Offer Codes that are unique according to Division Members other Accounts connected to the EP Campaigns Segmentation Rule Group s Message Pool s Action Pool s Class es and or any other logical grouping of tracking data.

The Direct Mail Management module allows an Account to setup a Campaign with an Action that triggers a notification back the particular Account to send a bulk and or uniquely printed customized and or addressed unit of mail by postal express or messenger service delivery to the particular Recipient who requested the Action Response. When an Account wishes to deliver physical material product information or content to a Recipient via postal express or messenger services collectively and hereinafter Direct Mail as part of its Campaigns the Account can use the Direct Mail Management module to control the handling of a Recipient s Actions that correlated to a particular Direct Mail Action request. Similar to the Outbound Call Management module and Offer Management module the Direct Mail Management module is configured through the EP and or API connections to the module to send notifications to send the Direct Mail to the Recipient at a known address.

Alternatively the Action may provide for the Recipient to first enter or choose an address to which to send the Direct Mail. The notifications may be sent in real time through a connection to the party handling the Direct Mail fulfillment or may be sent in bulk at periodic intervals. As with the other External Communication modules the settings for a particular Direct Mail Action can be applied at an Account Campaign Segmentation Rule Group Message Pool Action Pool Class or any other logical grouping of Recipients including individual Recipients .

The Customizable External Communication module allows an Account to create custom External Communications typically through a set of APIs from the EP which can communicate triggering events defined by the Account in the module s user interface or programmatically by employing the appropriate API settings.

The Customizable External Communication module provides a mechanism by which other types of External Communications that are not categorized into the other modules within the ECM can be supported typically through API connections configured through the Customizable External Communication module user interface or through data made available through other means of communication such as via FTP or electronic drop box where it is made available for retrieval by the external party for whom the data is intended.

Accounts can create and or edit External Communications and assign the rules to a particular Campaign Message Action Action Class Action Pool an Action sequence and or a combination of these. The Account can also store edit and reuse the rules independent of any Campaign or Campaign element. After creating and or modifying the External Communications the Account can Preview Save and or assign targeting constraints using the Target Management function.

The OSM is accessible from the Dashboard and through the main management menus and . From the OSM an Account can access an Optimization Overview that explains the purposes and functionality of using the OSE . A Create Modify Optimization Rules function allows Accounts to create new rules from scratch and or select existing rules. An Assign Optimization Rule to Campaign ID s an Assign Optimization Rule to Message ID s and an Assign Optimization Rule to Action ID s each allow an Account the ability to pick and choose where and how to apply existing rules and or a newly created rule.

Rules incorporate the measured past performance of Message IDs and or Actions. An Account typically creates a new Optimization Rule for entire Campaign a particular Message and or to follow a particular previous Action. Message Optimization Rules need at least one Message ID or at least one type of Action ID to measure and Action Optimization Rules need at least one type of Action ID to measure examples to follow .

The types of Actions that can be measured and incorporated into a rule are access by the Account using an Initial Action DTMF module option a Call backs module option a Page Views module option a SMS MMS module option a Click Thrus module option and or a Customizable module option.

The Initial Action DTMF module option can measure the usage of an initial Action taken by all Recipients after receiving the initial audio Message for a particular Message ID typically a DTMF keypad response or Action request but an initial Action could also be a voice response as a command to a voice prompt and explained earlier. The Call backs module option can measure the number of Call back Actions collective generated by a particular Message ID. The Page Views module option can measure the number of page views for a designated WAP page or Website generated by a particular Message ID and or previous Action ID within a series of Actions in connection with a particular Message ID and or Campaign.

The SMS MMS module option can measure the number of SMS MMS that either got sent and or responded to with another Action for a particular Message ID and or previous Action ID. The Click Thrus module option can measure the number of click thrus generated for a particular piece of content as a result of a particular Message ID and or previous Action ID. The Customizable module option can be setup to measure such Actions as Email Responses Direct Mail Responses Coupon Responses and or any other Action generated response measurable by the EP and attributable to a particular Message ID Campaign ID and or previous Action ID.

These Action measurement module options and can be employed independently or collectively. Additional instructions can be added to each measurement module option independently using a Thresholds module option and a Weighting and Rules module option. The Threshold module option can be used for a range of thresholds such as a preset threshold for the number of plays a Message ID is required to meet as an adequate performance threshold and or a preset performance threshold for all the Messages within a particular Campaign are required to meet. The optimization rule settings can be setup to either incorporate or not incorporate the Action measurement module options and instructions if the preset performance threshold is met. Another Threshold rule could be setup to limit the number of Message IDs that are passed through to the OSE from the MSE to say no more than the top ten scoring performing Message IDs.

A Weighting and Rules module option can be setup to place a variety of weighting prioritizations and rules to the collective measurements and results. For example more weight could be assigned to Message IDs that were created relatively recently say within the last week over Message IDs created before. Otherwise newly created content may always lose out to older content when selected purely on past usage and or performance. New and modified Optimization Rules can be previewed against an existing Campaign to see the results and or saved with the Preview Save function.

In an alternative embodiment of the OSM the OSM is also able to group results above by common factors such as market zip code area code or even communication device type. For example if a Message is for a specific mobile phone an advertiser may want to sell the OSM determines how best to deliver that advertisement by a plurality of common factors.

The OSM is designed to find the trends that are delivering better performance according to the optimization set up and will learn the patterns of performance and report back to the Account where there are opportunities to optimize delivery. In another embodiment the OSM is able to select versions of Campaigns and Message variations that are generating the most desirable Actions from a Recipient within the optimization goal grouping in question.

To facilitate this import process the MMP provides a relatively flexible database process which permits Accounts to map each Mobile Operator Carrier s data field into a specific data field in the CRM Server . This library of data fields can be utilized by the Segmentation Group Rules explained earlier and more UI examples later.

For example a Campaign may have a Segmentation Rule that requires a data field such as the Average Number of Calls Per Day. If the Mobile Operator Carrier with control of a particular CS has not provided this field but instead provides two related fields for Calls in Period Duration of Period the EP s Calculated Fields functionality and library allows for the creation of an Average Number of Calls Per Day calculated field by dividing the Calls in Period by Duration of the Period. Other calculated fields could include a field from a Mobile Operator Carrier such as Average Calls Per Month combined with a collected data field from the CRM Server s database such as Average Number of Actions Per Month to arrive at a Calculated field for Ratio of Calls to Actions .

The Calculated Fields Library window contains an Active filter and a variety of other filters which permit the Accounts with access to easily find Calculated Fields of interest. An Add New Calculated Field button allows Accounts and Account Members with the appropriate privileges to create new calculated data fields. Account Members with the certain privileges can also edit and or delete previously created fields with an Edit button and a Delete button that appear in the list of buttons depicted as available not grayed out . To create a Calculated Field an Account clicks the Add New Calculated Field button that brings up the window in .

For example if a Segmentation Group Rule used by an Account requires a data value such as the average number of seconds a Recipient calls per day but the Recipient Data provided by the Mobile Operator Carrier and stored in the Data Fields Library provided only for average number of minutes an Account could create a Calculated Field from the data available which multiplies the Average Number of Minutes data field by to arrive at the Average Number of Seconds.

Once the Account selects the appropriate field and necessary associated information the created rule then shows up in a Segmentation Rules window. In the Segmentation Rules window the Accounts can also build Segmentation Rules that are combinations of rules and rules and or rules using typical Boolean type operations.

A Segmentation Rule as illustrated in the Example window is currently the only rule in the Segmentation Rule Group currently named Segmentation Group List . The Account can add another Segmentation Rule to the Segmentation Rule Group by clicking one of the two available options of either an Add new Segmentation Rule or use an Add existing Segmentation Rule library . The Account can also use an Add New Message option to add a particular Message to the Segmentation Rule Group. A Segmentation Group List label is the default name of the second group.

Segmentation Rule Groups can be relabeled to help with clarity and further shared referencing as depicted in . If for example a particular Account has many existing Segmentation Rule Groups the EP s functionality of naming subsequent groups sequentially by default can help manage the clarity and track the rule assembly order within the Segmentation Rule Group.

A field illustrates a value of 50 where 50 of Recipients are set up to receive in this screenshot example a Soft Drink Message Message version another 25 of the total Recipients are set up to receive a Soft Drink Message Message version and the last 25 are set up to receive a Soft Drink Message Message version. As described earlier thresholds and weighting can further be added to these pre assigned values by the Account . In another alternative embodiment these initial setting can also be set to be overridden and or modified based on a threshold of performance data collected by the EP and instructions provided by the Account .

In this example and embodiment the Pop up window illustrates that the Segmentation Rule corresponding to the mouse roll over has two conditions which must be met for this particular Segmentation Rule to evaluate to true. In this embodiment listed Segmentation Rule entries in the Segmentation Rules Manager can reference Messages that have been attached within Campaigns to the Segmentation Rule.

In addition the Workflow Manager typically a specified Account Member with overall Account Administrator type privileges can also setup roles for which Members and or which other Accounts are requested and or required to approve specific elements and or specific content before the elements content are used by the EP and or before being sent to any Recipients and or a particular Recipient Segmentation and by what specific deadline s .

In this example and embodiment the Member sees the Message Script Action tab a Recording tab and an Approval tab. The screenshot has two separate and distinct Message versions. One version illustrated in a screen section and the other version in a screen section . The screen section version illustrates the Message Script Content coming from an RSS feed and the screen section version illustrates the Message Script Content being manually entered by the Account Member in text window . The amount and types of Messages version s depicted on the screenshot to a particular Member will be based on the settings in the configuration for the particular Channel.

If a phone number is included in the SMS MMS the EP can also replace the associated phone with a phone number that can be specifically tracked by first checking a Track Phone calls from phone numbers in text SMS Message box. An instruction to Replace phone number with the following tracing number which must forward to the phone number in the message allows the Account to setup a tracking phone number which forwards to the original number provided so the EP can track the number of calls originating as a result of the Messages. After the phone number is entered in a field the MMP can be set to run a test to verify that the phone number does in fact resolve to the original number. If not it can alert the specific Account Members with the appropriate roles and responsibilities of the issue in the Workflow manager module when where and how appropriate.

For example this notification can be a Message alert when a particular situation is realized near real time sent to a specific Account Member who is now a flagged and a Predetermined Recipient with an alert Message from the EP at his her next communication that is connected to the EP . The alert can be as read off instructions via the synthesized software of a script automatically created with the missing elements and as to what the current issues are with a specific Campaign or with the EP .

For example some Programs such as Opt in Programs could be alerts and or notifications of special dates such as a famous person s birthday or a holiday where the corresponding date is setup as only day dates in which the particular Message should and or must be played. In screenshot upper half section the Account can setup some of the TRM rules by indicating which dates a particular Message may and or must be played using a start time field a end time and the associated clock fields.

Alternatively the Account would use the lower half screenshot section on the illustration if instead the Message Script was preset to only be playable on a particular set of dates. In this example the Account may also select a date range during which the Message could be made available according to the overall timing rules of the particular channel setup in the TRM and or the PRRM .

A The following tasks need to be entered and approved. Date Assigned Jul. 10 2009 header tells an Account Member some specific tasks due for an associated a particular Sports Message clip. The subsequent information in this example outlines some of the elements that could be requested as Tasks to a specific Member.

Based upon the settings for the channel in this example the MMP could be setup to automatically voice the Message Script via software within a synthesized voice module. If the Account prefers another method an Account Member would be required to create the recording utilizing either a connected live microphone or by uploading the appropriate audio file for the Message clip. This screenshot illustrates some of the relevant settings and recording tools for those Accounts who decide to record by microphone mic where starting with a Record by Mic radio button the Account Member has selected the Recording Type .

Other Specifications can also be created modified reviewed and or assigned such as the total recording time entered in a Recording Time field and depicted as 4 seconds in this example. There is a set of recording controls in screen area and a Mic Level in screen area for microphone recording levels for those Accounts who wish to manually record the Message s audio clip through the computer s microphone port or with a built in microphone.

The Account Member then selects a filename using a Browse Files button. After uploading the particular Message audio clip the screenshot reflects a Recording time that is depicted as 4 seconds in this example and is illustrated with the appropriate indicator bar length in a timeline window. The preview controls are also available but appropriately without Record button option since this is an upload.

In this example the screen reflects an Account Member who has been assigned responsibility to approve the Message audio clips and thus he she is provided the usage of the Approve and the Reject button privileges. Whereas these Approve Reject buttons would be grayed out as inactive for those Account Members who did not have the necessary privileges.

This workflow Member privileges mechanism is configured through the Members Roles module mentioned back in and also mentioned throughout where the Accounts can assign specific approval responsibilities. Assuming this functionality is enabled by an Account this Approve Reject feature can ensure that Recipients only receive Messages that have been pre approved by the proper and pre assigned Account Member Members and or pre assigned Members for pre approving of other relevant Accounts such as a participating Brand or Retail type Accounts .

If the rejection is simply stated as Other as is illustrated with a Other rejection from the drop down options then the EP can be preset to allow and or require the Account Member to utilize an additional comments text field to provide additional specific information regarding the reasoning not shown . The rejected Campaign elements such as a specific Message audio clip and any associated Campaign elements such as the associated Actions then appear as an assignment on the Task list of either the appropriate Account Member who has responsibility for creating the Message script and or the current audio recording it can be specifically assigned to someone to correct and or it can be assigned to an Account Member who is specifically responsibility of addressing and or correcting the specific rejection type given.

For example if the reason for a rejection is that the recording quality was poor due to say the recording levels being too soft the Account Member who was responsible for the recordings could be notified in their Dashboard s Workflow module. If the reason for a rejection is that there is a Typo in follow up Action then an Account Member specifically assigned to correcting typos could be notified to make the correction and may be someone other than the Account Member who originally typed the specific follow up Action that was rejected.

First a Calling A Party dials a Called B Party by pressing on their mobile communication device. An Originating MSC O MSC sends an Origination Request hereinafter OREQ message to a HLR for processing. The HLR sends an OREQ return result with Message Service flag set. The O MSC sends a Send Routing Information hereinafter SRI request message to a SCP for processing.

In a SRI Acknowledgement the SCP directs the O MSC to route the call to an EP . The O MSC sends an Initial Address Message hereinafter IAM with the Redirect Number A and C . The EP returns an Address Complete Message hereinafter ACM ANM to the O MSC and an Audio clip Message starts playing the audio file associated to the Message ID that is designated for this specific mobile operator subscriber or now a Recipient . The EP is at this point is listening for the Recipient s Action such as a DTMF Digit detect start where a button pressed on the keypad of the mobile communication device or the Recipient Action could instead be spoken words in a pre assigned voice prompt Action.

Once the O MSC receives the ACM ANM from the EP and while the Message audio clip is playing to the Recipient the O MSC sends a Location Request hereinafter LOCREQ to the HLR for processing to a T MSC .

The HLR sends a RouteRequest with Mobile Dialed Number hereinafter MDN to the T MSC . The T MSC responds to the HLR with a RouteRequest Acknowledgement with Temporary Local Dialed Number hereinafter TLDN .

The HLR sends the TLDN to the O MSC in the LOCREQ Return Result hereinafter r.r. which triggers the call to the T MSC . The O MSC sends an IAM to the T MSC meanwhile the Recipient is still hearing the audio Message played by the EP .

The Called B Party hears Ringing . The T MSC returns an Address Complete Message hereinafter ACM to alert the O MSC that the B Party is ringing . The O MSC sends a Release hereinafter RLS to the EP to disconnect from the call. The EP stops the playing of the audio Message in an Audio clip Message stops and a DTMF Digit detect stop stops listening for Recipient s button presses or spoken words in a voice prompt and returns a Release Complete hereinafter RLC to the O MSC .

If a digit from the Recipient s initial Action DTMF were detected or a spoken word voice prompt received while the EP was listening for the Recipient s Subsequent Action and an Action Response would then be triggered by the EP such as an SMS message although other Action Responses are possible with the EP depending upon the settings for the Campaign and have been explained in detail earlier. In this diagram an SMS requested by a Action taken by the Recipient is returned as an Action Response by the EP .

A Ring back Tone heard by Calling A Party allows the Recipient to hear the ring back until the Called B Party answers. The Called B Party Answers resulting in an Answer Message ANM being sent from the T MSC to the O MSC . The O MSC connects the voice path to the T MSC and the Recipient now the Calling A Party can engage in a Conversation with the Called B Party .

First A Calling A Party dials a Called B Party by pressing on their mobile communication device. An Originating MSC O MSC sends an IAM A B message to a HLR within an Operator SCP HLR OSS for processing. The HLR within the Operator SCP HLR OSS queries a SCP to determine how the call should be handled. The SCP within the Operator SCP HLR OSS sends a return result as a Query SCP 1Switch to the O MSC . The HLR within the Operator SCP HLR OSS may request information in a Query Other Databases function to a Signal Media Server within the EP .

The Signal Media Server Message sends a Query to a Message Server which responds with a Response from Message Server that indicates to the Signal Media Server whether or not there is a Message to play to Calling A Party referred to as a Flagged Recipient in this embodiment as well as providing a Message ID passed to the Signal Media Server if there is in fact a Message to be played.

If there is no Message ID or no Message to be played the Message Server will not return a Message ID. The Signal Media Server changes the response format into a Message format that can be interpreted by the SCP within the Operator SCP HLR OSS and sends a Response from back to the SCP within the Operator SCP HLR OSS .

The SCP within the Operator SCP HLR OSS then responds to the O MSC in a Response from SCP along with instructions on how to handle the call. The instructions will either be to process the call normally and connect to a Terminating Switch T MSC not shown or open a voice connection to the Signal Media Server depending on whether there was a Message ID and Message to play in step .

If a Message is to be played the Signal Media Server returns an Address Complete Message ACM to the O MSC and starts to play the audio Message clip selected in a Play Message step for this specific Calling A Party referred to now as a Recipient is this embodiment. Once the audio Message starts to play the Signal Media Server is listening for a button press on the keypad or spoken words from the Recipient in the form of a predefined Action stored within the Message Server . If the Recipient responds an Action request through such a button press or spoken word voice prompt the Signal Media Server will respond with an Answer Message ANM and will indicate the response from the Recipient .

Once the O MSC receives the ACM from the Signal Media Server and while the Message is playing to the Recipient the SCP within the Operator SCP HLR OSS sends an IAM A B back to the O MSC to request that the call proceed to the T MSC . The O MSC responds with an ACM to acknowledge the request and triggers the connection to the T MSC with an IAM . The Called Party B begins to hear the ring on their mobile communication device and acknowledges the request with an ACM . The T MSC alerts the O MSC that that Called B Party is ringing . When the Called B Party answers the T MSC sends an ANM notifying the O MSC that the Called B Party has answered their phone. The O MSC sends a Release REL which disconnects the Signal Media Server and Message Server from the call. The Signal Media Server acknowledges the REL request with a Release Completed RLC message. At this point the Recipient and the Called B Party are connected and in a conversation.

If step is answered Yes then Call is routed to Exchange Platform where a Message Server Platform checks for a Message in Predetermined Recipient Table . If the answer to a Message Found in Predetermined Recipient Table is Yes then a prompt is sent where a Message Server returns Message clip ID and Associated Action ID s if known . If step is answered No then a prompt is sent to a MSE Message Selection Engine determines Message selection explained in detail in for this alternative embodiment .

The MSE should send a single Message ID to a Message to Play query. If step is answered No as in there is no Message ID or there is no Message found associated with that particular Message ID then the Message Service Platform returns routing of call to Originating Switch or MSC . If the answer to step is Yes as in there is a Message associated with the Message ID and available to play then the Message Server returns Message clip ID and Associated Action ID s if known to the Signal Media Server where a Message played and waits for Recipient keypad tone function is invoked.

If the answer to the next query Was there a Valid Action keypad pressed results in a No during the duration of time that the Connection remains open then a Message Server stores the Recipient Action non Action data for Usage Tracking function is invoked. If the answer to step is a Yes then an Asynchronous follow up Action s is performed e.g. SMS MMS WAP IVR email offers direct mail outbound call etc. back to the Recipient . Next the Message Server stores Recipient Action non Action data for Usage Tracking function is invoked. Then the Message Service Platform returns routing of call to Originating Switch or MSC is invoked.

If the answer to query is Yes then the Message Server uses the combined results of the MSE by invoking several cumulative queries including an Employ Location and Motion rule match a Psychographic rule match a Demographic rule match a Timing rule match a Behavioral rule match and a Customizable or Non filtered Message match . If any of these queries or result in a No answer the MSE continues to calculate the remaining data. The Location and Motion rule match involves the Campaign s associated rules for the Location and Motion of the Calling A Party and or Called B Party and was explained earlier. The Psychographic rule match involves associated rules for targeting based upon the Recipient s profile information. The Timing rule match includes traditional advertising delineations such as restricting or only allowing the Campaign to run during certain times of day days of the week etc. and is referenced in more detail earlier. The Behavioral rule match involves associated rules for targeting based upon the Recipient s prior Action non Action to Messages Actions Offers or other available Behavior information described earlier. The Customizable or Non filtered Message match involves custom rules created by an Account and is described earlier.

The cumulative results of these rules and associated instructions are passed to step as a list of prioritized Message IDs from those Messages that have been played the most to those Messages that have been played the least if known . This Message ID list is then passed into the Select Message version based upon Optimization Engine which is explained in detail in . With the single Message ID selected in step the Message Server returns Message clip ID and Associated Action ID s if known back to the step as is also illustrated in the previous Figure.

If the answer to query is yes then the next step asks if an Optimization Engine rules for Messages active . If the answer to query is No then the list of associated Message IDs will be sent to a Rotate between Messages equally function where a single Message ID is then passed back to the step in .

If the answer to query is yes then the next query asks a Has any Message ID version met a performance threshold . This performance threshold is predetermined and set up by the Accounts using the OSM . For example if an Account set up a performance threshold of say one thousand plays for a particular Campaign then step would pass any Message IDs with one thousand plays or more on to an Appropriate Message ID transmitted step. If there is more than one Message ID tied for the most played this step selects randomly a single Message ID from this list of most played and that single Message ID is then passed back to step on .

If the answer to the query is yes then the version which has already met a performance threshold is selected and the Appropriate Message transmitted back to the step in .

If the answer to query is no then the next step is a Determine optimization goals and the associated weight and score given to each factor that commences a process whereby the optimization rules are retrieved from the OSE and can be yes to employ one or more of the following instruction settings a Prioritize DTMF response a Prioritize Call back rate a Prioritize Website Page Views metric a Prioritize reply rate to SMS MMS a Prioritize WAP URL click thru and a Prioritize Customizable metric .

For example if ten Message IDs were collectively sent from step and the only active rule was the Prioritize DTMF response then the other five functions and would be ignored and the Message ID with the highest number of initial DTMF responses would become the single Message ID selected in step . The OSM rules can add logic and Boolean operators. For example a rule could first state take the Message IDs with the top four highest initial number of DTMF responses and then second re prioritize those four Message IDs based on Messages that have performed best at generating website page views from step .

The single Message ID with cumulative best performing rule results would pass from step to the next step where the Message Server returns Message clip ID and Associated Action ID s if known . Meaning some Message IDs have the initial Action pre assigned to them some have the initial Action and some Subsequent Actions pre assigned to them and some Message IDs allow the ASE to select the most appropriate Action. The Message Server returns Message clip ID and Associated Action ID s if known on to step back on .

If the answer to query is No then the Action ID is passed to the next query to ask does an Action outbound phone call request . If the answer to query is Yes then the Action ID is passed to an Action Response Transmit call request to call center through method set up by Account function that is invoked. If the answer to query is No then the Action ID is passed to the next query to ask does an Action email request if on file .

If the answer to query is Yes then the Action ID is passed to a Retrieve and send email with tiny URL and or tiny phone number for Usage Tracking function that is invoked. If the answer to query is No then the Action ID is passed to the next query to ask does an Action direct mail response . If the answer to query is Yes then the Action ID is passed to an Action Response Transmit mailing instructions to direct mail house if address known function that is invoked.

If the answer to is No then the Action ID is passed to a Customizable Action function that is invoked. At step an Account can create rules for a catch all Action for when Action IDs that were thought to be recognized in step but pass through all available Action lookup queries e.g. and without an Action assignment. The rule applied to step could be to employ a default Action e.g. a SMS Please try again No Action needed or some set of rules whereby Actions are selected from an available Class and or Pool randomly and or per a specific Campaign.

The present invention has vast applicability in the relevant industry. According to the industry at the end of 2008 there were over 17 billion global mobile subscribers. Now there are over 300 million mobile subscribers in just the United States and Canada. North American mobile operators are believed to collectively average over five customer service calls per mobile subscriber annually. The calls from these mobile subscribers into customer service centers are often quite costly to facilitate and time consuming to both the mobile call center as well as the subscriber.

Further every year millions of mobile subscribers simply switch who their mobile service provider is contracted through often due to frustrations encountered over difficult interactions and or misunderstandings with customer service billing issues hardware and software problems and the like. Therefore a great disconnect exists which facilitates the aforementioned problems.

As has been described above according to the above described embodiments an advantage of the invention is that it facilitates the linkage of targeted information customer service content marketing and or advertising between the Recipient typically a mobile subscriber of a particular Mobile Operator Carrier and parties who wish to effectively communicate to these Recipients . The ability to target individuals or customers subscribers with relevant information marketing and customer service messaging is crucial to the mobile communication industry in solving the mentioned issues.

The invention facilitates the ability for mobile network operators and carriers to communicate effectively with their customer base through targeted Campaigns. These profiled Messages can help the mobile network operators and carriers enhance their Lifecycle Management efforts to improve the customer experience reduce churn promote Value Added Services and increase Average Revenue Per User ARPU . These Campaigns are created to be unobtrusive and to provide actionable Messages that are inserted into the Recipient s call stream which can reinforce brand tenets pre empt customer service issues and promote new products and services.

The invention further provides an advantage by offering a vehicle for competing mobile operators advertisers advertising agencies retailers brands handset manufacturers distribution channel owners content providers online users and the mobile subscribers themselves to all become active participants or Accounts via a web based Exchange Platform . This invention can leverage existing technology within the Mobile operator s Carrier s network that is linked to the Exchange Platform s content insertion capabilities and rules logic engines. Yet an advantage of the invention is that the platform is not limited to mobile operator and carriers infrastructure. The invention can effectively connect anywhere there is a physical and or wireless communication link to the EP via such connection tyically used for land lines mobile devices transceivers with motion detectors etc.

A significant advantage of the system is the Exchange Platform . The Exchange Platform provides the ability to target customer service improve communication efficiencies and provide information and content that s relevant to each Recipient . The aforementioned problems often sterns from one s ability to initially and properly collect normalize and segment the data. The Exchange Platform solves this problem. The Exchange Platform facilitates these key elements and continually tracks usage and performance so that in turn the data collected leads to even greater optimizations functionality and data granularity for improved information searching.

Another advantage of the Network Communication System is the Campaign. The Campaign messaging setup by the Accounts within the Exchange Platform can employ a wide range of targeting rules and instructions that including sequencing timing permissioning provisioning budgeting and or bidding

Furthermore the Campaigns themselves have subsequent and trackable elements components that build upon the previously delivered Messages Actions and data that was sent requested and or collected. These data points are measured and in turn continually improve the effectiveness of subsequent Messages and Actions that follow within a Campaign or Campaign goal.

The Exchange Platform also facilitates the ability to have mobile subscribers and online user s preselected channels of programs or Campaigns with content of interest to him or her individually such as specific sports news weather financial news gossip entertainment etc. In addition Recipients can also become Accounts and even create their own Campaigns that have targeted messages to family members and or friends. The foregoing description of the present invention has been provided for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to the practitioner skilled in the art. Embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical application thereby enabling others skilled in the art to understand the invention the various embodiments and with various modifications that are suited to the particular use contemplated. It is intended that the scope of the invention be defined by the following claims and their equivalents.

The foregoing description of the present invention has been provided for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to the practitioner skilled in the art. Embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical application thereby enabling others skilled in the art to understand the invention the various embodiments and with various modifications that are suited to the particular use contemplated. It is intended that the scope of the invention be defined by the following claims and their equivalents.

