---

title: Closed-loop soft error rate sensitivity control
abstract: Disclosed is a closed-loop feedback system for controlling the soft error rate (SER) due to radiation strikes on electronic circuitry. A variable sensitivity soft error rate detector provides and output corresponding to the soft error rate. This output is supplied to a voltage control. The output of the voltage control is fed back to the sensitivity control of the sensor—thus forming a feedback loop. The output of the voltage control may be the power supply of the soft error rate sensor. The output of the soft error rate sensor may also be used to enable and disable fault tolerant schemes or alert a user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08232819&OS=08232819&RS=08232819
owner: LSI Corporation
number: 08232819
owner_city: Milpitas
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20091202
---
Modern digital integrated circuits can have internal logic disturbed by radiation in the form of alpha particle or neutron strikes. A disruption is called a Single Event Upset SEU . When SEUs occur in storage elements such as memories latches flip flops and charge coupled devices they are persistent. This persistence is particularly troublesome. The rate at which SEUs occur is called the Soft Error Rate SER . Persistent SEUs in control logic or state machines can lead a circuit into an unwanted state. This can lead to a system failure.

Radiation e.g. alpha particle and neutron particle flux changes with the physical environment and location. For example cosmic radiation levels are correlated with altitude and thus can change significantly on airplane flights. In another example free neutrons tend to follow the magnetic poles. Thus neutron flux can vary significantly across the world. Thus the SER also varies with the physical environment and location of the system or integrated circuit.

An embodiment of the invention may therefore comprise an apparatus comprising a soft error rate monitor that produces an indication of a soft error rate occurring in a sensor said sensor receiving a supply voltage that affects said soft error rate occurring in said sensor and a supply voltage control that receives said indication of said soft error rate and sets said supply voltage said supply voltage control setting said supply voltage to satisfy a criteria soft error rate occurring in said sensor.

An embodiment of the invention may therefore further comprise a method of operating an electronic device comprising receiving an indicator of a soft error rate from a sensor a sensitivity of said sensor being based on an input voltage and adjusting said input voltage to change said sensitivity of said sensor in response to changes in said indicator of said soft error rate from said sensor.

An embodiment of the invention may therefore further comprise an apparatus comprising a soft error rate sensor a sensitivity of said soft error rate sensor being based on an input voltage a voltage regulator that determines said input voltage based on an output of said soft error rate sensor and system circuitry receiving a supply voltage corresponding to said input voltage a system sensitivity to soft errors being based on said supply voltage.

In an embodiment control voltage is a power supply voltage to radiation sensitive circuitry in sensor . The radiation sensitive circuitry in sensor becomes less sensitive to radiation strikes as control voltage is raised. For example a range of 5 around a nominal power supply voltage to sensor can change the sensitivity of sensor over a range of 2 1. When radiation levels are low voltage control outputs a lower control voltage to sensor . This makes sensor more sensitive to radiation . Equilibrium is reached whereby voltage control via control voltage maintains soft error rate indicator at roughly a constant value. In another embodiment equilibrium is reached when voltage control maintains soft error rate indicator at or below a threshold level.

In an embodiment soft error rate indicator corresponds to a rate of soft errors occurring in sensor . Thus maintaining soft error rate indicator at the constant value corresponds to maintaining the rate of soft errors occurring in sensor at a nearly constant value. Likewise maintain soft error rate indicator at or below a threshold level corresponds to maintaining the rate of soft errors occurring in sensor at or below a threshold level.

In an embodiment control voltage may be used to control the soft error rate of other circuitry. For example control voltage may be used to set a system power supply level. Thus when sensor is receiving high levels of radiation the system power supply level is raised in order to make that system circuitry less sensitive to radiation strikes.

In system also receives control voltage . The sensitivity of system to radiation is affected by control voltage . In an embodiment the sensitivity of system to radiation for a particular control voltage level corresponds to the sensitivity of sensor to radiation . Thus the soft error rate occurring in system corresponds or varies together with the soft error rate occurring in sensor . Assuming radiation and radiation track each other proportionally i.e. when radiation doubles radiation also doubles controlling the sensitivity of system to radiation with control voltage can result in a constant soft error rate occurring in system . This constant soft error rate in system is maintained in spite of changes in the level of radiation striking system . Thus a stable or below a threshold level of soft errors can be maintained in system over a range of radiation levels striking system . In an embodiment control voltage is a power supply voltage.

In system includes fault tolerant FT control and fault tolerant block . Fault tolerant control is coupled to fault tolerant block . Fault tolerant control receives soft error rate indicator . Based on soft error rate indicator fault tolerant control may enable or turn on a fault tolerant scheme that uses fault tolerant block . For example if the closed loop feedback system is unable to maintain the soft error rate inside of system at or below a threshold level then fault tolerant control may respond by enabling system to use a fault tolerant scheme to protect against soft errors caused by radiation . Examples of fault tolerant schemes that fault tolerant control may enable to protect against soft errors caused by radiation include but are not limited to parity algorithms to detect errors error correcting codes to protect data redundant circuits redundant circuits and a voting scheme and fault tolerant or fault correcting software algorithms run by system .

Finally if soft error rate indicator exceeds a second threshold system may shut down or alert a user that the system is being operated out of specification and should not be used. This information may be communicated to the user via an error message or some other type of indicator e.g. error light .

It should be understood that the aforementioned systems adapt to meet a desired or required soft error rate level by using a soft error rate monitor a.k.a. soft error rate sensor or other radiation flux sensor to control hardware and or software that affects the soft error rate of a system or chip . In an embodiment the soft error rate feedback system can be entirely on one integrated circuit. In another embodiment one or more parts of the feedback system or the controlled system may be on another chip. For example the control voltage produced by the feedback system may be used by an off chip system power supply to adjust the power supply to the integrated circuit. In this manner the voltage control e.g. and is off chip while the rest of the system e.g. sensor and system are on the same chip. In another example the sensor may be on a separate integrated circuit from the other components of the system.

In response to a change in the soft error rate indicator the sensitivity of the soft error rate sensor is adjusted . For example in response to a change in soft error rate indicator from sensor voltage control adjusts the sensitivity of sensor to impinging radiation by adjusting control voltage .

A system fault tolerance scheme is turned on when the output of the soft error rate sensor meets a criteria . For example fault tolerance control may turn on fault tolerance in response to soft error rate indicator exceeding a threshold. Fault tolerance control may turn on a hardware or software based fault tolerance scheme . When soft error rate indicator falls back below the threshold fault tolerance control may turn off a hardware or software based fault tolerance scheme . Fault tolerance schemes that fault tolerance control may turn on include but are not limited to parity algorithms to detect errors error correcting codes to protect data redundant circuits redundant circuits and voting schemes and fault tolerant or fault correcting software algorithms.

Pattern generator outputs a repeating data pattern. The repeating data pattern repeats itself every N shift cycles of serial shift register . The input of serial shift register receives the repeating data pattern from pattern generator . Error detector receives the output of serial shift register . Error detector also receives the repeating data pattern from pattern generator . Because serial shift register is an integer multiple M of the length of the repeating data pattern i.e. N if no soft errors occur in serial shift register the data patterns received at the two inputs to error detector will match. However if one or more bits of the repeating data pattern are changed by a radiation strike error detector will detect this as a difference between its two inputs. Thus error detector can generate an indicator of the soft error rate .

In an embodiment pattern generator may be a simple flip flop that toggles an output e.g. 10101010 . In another embodiment pattern generator may implement a linear feedback shift register to produce a more complex repeating pattern. Error detector can be a simple comparator e.g. XOR gate and a counter. In an embodiment pattern generator and or error detector may be constructed to be less sensitive than serial shift register to radiation strikes.

The methods systems devices and functions described above may be implemented with or executed by one or more computer systems. The methods described above may also be stored on a computer readable medium. Some or all of the elements of control system soft error sensitivity control system and soft error sensitivity control system may be comprise or be included in computers systems integrated circuits systems on a chip SoC or their components. This includes but is not limited to control system soft error sensor voltage control soft error sensitivity control system sensor voltage control system soft error sensitivity control system sensor voltage control and system .

Communication interface may comprise a network interface modem port bus link transceiver or other communication device. Communication interface may be distributed among multiple communication devices. Processing system may comprise a microprocessor microcontroller logic circuit or other processing device. Processing system may be distributed among multiple processing devices. User interface may comprise a keyboard mouse voice recognition interface microphone and speakers graphical display touch screen or other type of user interface device. User interface may be distributed among multiple interface devices. Storage system may comprise a disk tape integrated circuit RAM ROM network storage server or other memory function. Storage system may be a computer readable medium. Storage system may be distributed among multiple memory devices.

Processing system retrieves and executes software from storage system . Processing system may retrieve and store data . Processing system may also retrieve and store data via communication interface . Processing system may create or modify software or data to achieve a tangible result. Processing system may control communication interface or user interface to achieve a tangible result. Processing system may retrieve and execute remotely stored software via communication interface .

Software and remotely stored software may comprise an operating system utilities drivers networking software and other software typically executed by a computer system. Software may comprise an application program applet firmware or other form of machine readable processing instructions typically executed by a computer system. When executed by processing system software or remotely stored software may direct computer system to operate as described herein.

The foregoing description of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed and other modifications and variations may be possible in light of the above teachings. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical application to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention in various embodiments and various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. It is intended that the appended claims be construed to include other alternative embodiments of the invention except insofar as limited by the prior art.

