---

title: Method and system for providing web based interactive lessons with improved session playback
abstract: The system and method of the present invention provides for realistic, live on live with webcams, interactive, golf lessons from a golf professional who is located at a distance from the golfer. The lesson experience is enhanced by providing tools to the professional for annotating the lesson both verbally and visually, as well as by providing for the recording of the lesson and later playback of same, with enhanced synchronization of audio/visual data streams.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08613620&OS=08613620&RS=08613620
owner: Interactive Sports Direct Incorporated
number: 08613620
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090929
---
The present application is a continuation in part application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 189 640 filed on Jul. 26 2005 now abandoned which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

The present invention relates to a method and system for providing interactive golf lessons with a professional instructor. The present invention also relates generally to the playback of interactive multi participant multi media networked sessions of all types such as the playback of an interactive web conference including playback of a saved lesson session. The present invention also provides for the mediation of social interaction between and among various golfers and or golf professionals.

Numerous ways for improving an individual s golf game currently exist. Today most golf instruction is accessed by taking a lesson with a golf instructor watching an instructional or reading self help books and or other periodicals. The benefits and shortcomings of each of the three main sources of golf instruction are obvious.

Taking lessons with a golf instructor is the most effective form however it is also the least practical. An individual is required to schedule a lesson at a time convenient for himself as well as the golf instructor. Additionally the individual s choice of golf instructors is limited to the distance the individual is willing to travel to take his lesson. Furthermore when an individual takes lessons from a golf instructor he typically does not have the opportunity to write notes nor is he allowed to video record the session. As a result important points of the lesson may be forgotten as time passes.

Instructional videos while easily accessible and relatively affordable do not offer the same personalization that live instruction offers. While instructional videos address common faults in the golf swing and offer instruction or drills to fix these faults not all golfers are afflicted with the same swing faults. Thus instructional videos are not useful in addressing swing flaws unique to a particular golfer. Additionally with the number of instructional videos available it is a challenge for a golfer to choose the appropriate video to correct flaws in their individual game and swing.

Self help reading material similarly to instructional videos does not offer the personalization feature needed to address unique swing flaws of a particular golfer. Additionally the number of books and periodicals available makes it challenging to choose the most effective one.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 486 001 discloses an instructional aid for enabling and assisting a person to emulate a predetermined movement such as a golf swing including an image data capturing device for scanning capturing and storing the image data signals of the person s golf swing or movement and a transceiver for transmitting the image data signals over a communications network to a remote computer. The remote computer contains a database which stores image signals and bio mechanical data of a number of preselected swings or movements. The instructional aid may be used for analyzing or reporting on particular geographical regions or objects and provides a specialized presentation for development of that region or object from information stored in the computer database. While this design provides a remote instructional aid this variation does not disclose web based interactive golf lesson. Furthermore this variation does not provide real time instruction from an instructor to a subscriber as instruction is provided from information already stored in the computer database.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 767 211 discloses a system for improving and teaching decision making skills in a respective sporting activity specifically golf. The system provides at least one of real or hypothetical situations and includes examples of different actions to be taken in those situations. The user responds to the situation and the actions chosen by the user are reviewable by an expert for evaluation thereof. The responses and evaluations are transmitted via a communication network between at least two personal computers. While this variation discloses features such as real time professional assistance provided for improving a golf game it does not disclose capturing video data that actually depicts a situation and transmitting the actual video data to be reviewed by a professional. Without the capturing and transmission of videos the instructor is not able to utilize visual aids for the purpose of providing instructions. The utilization of visual aids is an essential aspect of the present invention. Furthermore while multiple users may respond similarly to the real or hypothetical situations including examples of different actions to be taken in certain situations not all of these users may have similar swings. Each user may have a unique swing fault that is not identifiable by analyzing the responses to hypothetical situations by these users. The present claimed invention captures and transmits videos thus allowing the instructor to utilize video representations of the user s swing for the purpose of analyzing the swing and providing individual personalized instruction.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 705 869 discloses a system and method for interactive communication skill training The system includes a user computer system having a memory a display device and input device a video recording device and an audio device. The system also includes an e learning web site with skill training software for interactively teaching a skill. The system further includes an expert s computer system. The method for interactive communications skill training includes the steps of accessing the e learning website by the user selecting a learning module for a communication skill by the user interacting with the learning module and recording the user interaction using the video recording device. This variation however does not concern real time video data capture for the purpose of at least one of teaching and improving a user s golfing ability. This variation performs analyses via a computer e learning website. This system provides a computer analysis of the information provided and automatically produces a lesson based upon stored information. This system does not provide for live interactive personal lessons tailored specifically for a subscriber. Furthermore this variation does not disclose capturing video data that actually depicts a situation and transmitting the actual video data to be reviewed by a professional. Without the capturing and transmission of videos the instructor is not able to utilize visual aids for the purpose of providing instructions. The utilization of visual aids is an essential aspect of the present invention.

U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 224 387 and 6 517 353 disclose systems for collecting pictures to produce a pictorial tour of a golf course to be distributed over a communication network for the purpose of providing a visual tour of the course. This system is run by an intermediary service bureau that coordinates obtaining the pictures and providing the pictures to the golfers as well as controlling access thereto. This variation however only presents still picture visual data and is intended to give the golfer a shot by shot view of a golf course.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 293 802 discloses a hybrid format for representing a video lesson which is transported part in an audio video file format and part in an identifying format for identify pre stored audio video content stored locally with respect to the student from a first location to a second location across a communication channel includes a first item having a first format type and a second item having a second format type. Even though the format types are different the patent discloses that the lesson can be played to the student as if it were a single contiguous data item and as such efficiencies can be obtained in storage and transfer. This patent does not disclose a real time interactive communication session. Nor does it disclose an interactive lesson session wherein the student can interact in real time with the instructor asking additional questions providing in real time additional audio and or visual files for review and comment by the instructor. It also does not disclose the transportation of complete non local audio video instruction files from a first location associated with the instructor across a communication channel to a second location associated with a student.

U.S. Patent Publication No. US 2004 0191744 mentions electronic training systems configured to allow an instructor to present pre existing course content to a plurality of students at the same time utilizing audio and or video receivers and transmitters to enable real time communication between the instructor and his her students and between students. Nothing in this publication suggests discloses or mentions a system or method wherein a student is able to upload an image of a golf swing or other human action for review analysis and instruction to the student by the instructor.

Conventional computing systems allow users at different locations to participate in the interactive exchange of data such as audio video and graphics media data. Such data may include Voice Over Internet Protocol VOIP related media data as well as non media data. Generally the data from various sources and in various formats are routed to one or more servers for distribution to all participants during a session. The various streams of data may also be captured and retained for playback. A significant requirement of playback is that the various data be played back in an apparently synchronized fashion so as to replicate the experience of the original session or parts thereof. Absent apparent synchronization for example the observer could hear a person announce a certain action shown on the video playback after the action has already taken place.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 674 459 discloses a system and process to create a viewable standard format post conference recording of a network conference after the completion of an interactive teleconference. The separate raw data streams that are captured during the course of the teleconference are not in a format for playback but must be processed into a viewable format. The post conference processing postpones transcribing tasks into a viewable format recording until after the conference. Moreover it does not disclose or address the integration of telephone data capture during the live conference.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 464 137 discloses a system for recording a teleconference session at the participant s client s computer during the progress of the session and for post conference editing of the recorded file. It does not disclose or address the integration of telephone data capture during the live conference.

The present invention allows people to connect together over the Internet or other capable communication network in a live conference and provides for the uploading of action videos annotation of same split screen functionality concurrently with live cameras on both ends conference audio visual recording audio visual playback on demand and sharing of experiences with other people.

In one preferred embodiment the present invention allows students and professionals to connect together in a live conference and provides for the uploading of action videos annotation of same split screen functionality with live cameras on both ends conference audio visual recording and simultaneous audio visual playback on demand from multiple user and coach accounts. Moreover the student is provided with a choice of professionals the professional is able to analyze images provided by the student during the conference and is provided with the appropriate tools to markup same and discuss it with the student during the real time interactive session. The entire session is recorded and stored in the student s locker for immediate and later replay. In one preferred embodiment the professionals are available live apparently instantly at that desired moment.

In one preferred embodiment the system and method of present invention provides for realistic live interactive golf lessons from a golf professional who is located at a distance from the golfer. The system and method of the present invention further enhances the lesson experience by providing tools to the professional for annotating the lesson both verbally and visually as well as by providing for the recording of the lesson and later playback of same by the golfer and others chosen by the golfer to see same.

In this preferred embodiment a golfer records swings while playing on the golf course while on the practice range or during a lesson session or otherwise using either a digital camera or the video function on his her cell phone or other functionally equivalent device. The golfer goes to the website of an online provider of the present invention. The online provider has arranged for coaches to be available online to teach online in accordance with their schedule. At the provider s website the golfer may sign up as a system subscriber. After signing up the golfer can immediately personalize his her account by uploading and labeling video clips of swings in any format and placing same in golfer s locker. The golfer purchases lessons from the online provider and then checks the schedule on the site to find out when golf professionals are available. A lesson session time is arranged through the online provider s reservation system. Then the golfer at the scheduled time takes a live interactive lesson with one of the online provider s professional golfers.

During the live interactive lesson session the system enables the golf professional to diagram and analyze selected swings live via the Internet. During the session while visibly instructing the student the golf professional will be interacting with the golfer on the phone and or through a microphones associated with their computers. The professional is able to analyze the images and by utilizing tools provided by the system markup and display same to the golfer either individually or in split screen mode for comparison purposes. Selected still images may be saved for future reference as printable screen shot tips. During the session the system records the live interactive lesson and at the conclusion of a lesson the system saves the lesson experience. In addition the professional will provide the golfer with a game plan which gives a guide for future improvement. The game comprises two components. The first one or more screen shot tips which may be printed and second an audio visual component which may be played back for replay of lesson. Thereafter the Game Plan as well as clips of all swings uploaded by the golfer are available for review in the golfer s locker. The Game Plan screen shot tips may also be printed out at any time. Additionally Golfers may share Game Plans and other information with other members of the system.

The present invention also relates to an improved recording and playback control method and system which executes as an on line web application running under a browser plug in capable of playing multiple types of media files. The system controls playback of a plurality of data streams while maintaining synchronization of the different media. In accordance with one preferred embodiment the files to be played include the record of a VOIP conversation captured during a multi participant distributed interactive session and stored in one or more databases or file systems which may be located on one or more remote servers. Upon request for playback of an interactive session downloading of the data streams to the client processor in background is initialized. The separate data streams may be played by separate process threads but are synchronized to the client computer master time clock at their initialization. During playback of the data streams separate processes are periodically resynchronized to ensure that the different media files are maintained in relative synchronization with each other.

In accordance with another embodiment of the present invention the professional golfer and the golfer are in an audio video session talking on the phone including VOIP the golfer uploads a new movement video to his her locker the professional accesses same the professional can comment directly on the new movement video and or prepare a golf plan for later use based on same.

The present invention relates to an Internet compatible system for providing data representing golf instructions. A communication interface receives a message including data representing a request for golf instruction. A message processor for examining the request provides an alert message to an instructor alerting the instructor to the received request. An input processor receives data including a response to the request alert message and the distribution processor forwards the received response data to a destination system.

The systems and methods comprise one or more subscriber stations and or one or more instructor stations whereby one or more subscribers and or one or more instructors may use the systems and methods of the present invention.

Additionally an interactive system receives data representing golf instructions. A display processor generates a user interface display image on a display device. An input device processor enables a user to enter a request to receive golf instructions. The message processor receives data representing a request for golf instruction entered by a user via the input device processor. A communication interface processes the request received from the distribution processor to provide a formatted request message for communication and initiates communication of a formatted request message to a destination system. The communication interface also receives a message responsive to the communicated formatted request message and initiates the communication of the responsive message to the user.

In accordance with one preferred embodiment of the present invention the communication interface also initiates and manages a Voice over Internet Protocol VOIP telephone conversation between the instructor and at least one student. The communication interface further supports playing by the instructor during the lesson of at least one video previously uploaded by the student for evaluation and comment by the instructor. The communication interface may further support the optional reception and transmission of web camera data streams from the instructor and the at least one student.

A primary object of the present invention is to provide a system and method for providing web based interactive golf lessons that overcome the shortcomings of the prior art.

Another object of the present invention is to provide a system and method for providing web based interactive golf lessons.

Yet another object of the present invention is to provide a system and method for providing web based interactive golf lessons whereby a subscriber selectively captures video data representing the subscriber s golf swing.

Still yet another object of the present invention is to provide a system and method for providing web based interactive golf lessons whereby a subscriber logs onto a central server uploading the captured video data for viewing by the instructor.

Still another object of the present invention is to provide a system and method for providing web based interactive golf lessons whereby the subscriber receives real time and or delayed instruction from a golf instructor.

Another object of the present invention is to provide a system and method for providing web based interactive golf lessons whereby the golf instructor is able to selectively edit the video data representing the subscriber s golf swing and provide the edited video data to the subscriber.

Yet another object of the present invention is to provide a system and method for providing web based interactive golf lessons whereby the golf instructor compares video data of the subscriber to archived video data of professionals and or archived video data of the subscriber.

Another object of the present invention is to provide a system and method for providing web based interactive golf lessons whereby the golf instructor selectively edits the video data representing the subscriber s golf swing by adding alignment lines to the subscriber s video data.

Another object of the present invention is to provide a system and method for providing web based interactive golf lessons whereby each subscriber is provided with a unique storage area for retaining data representing previous lessons and instruction for later review.

Still another object of the present invention is to provide a system and method for providing web based interactive golf lessons whereby the instructor creates a game plan for the subscriber based on the subscriber s skill level and the important swing thoughts taught in prior lessons.

Another object of the present invention is to provide a web based interactive golf lessons including a handheld device able to communicate with the central server and receive instantaneous information.

Another object of the present invention is to provide a web based interactive golf lessons including a handheld device able to communicate with the central server and receive information including club selection and the type of swing the subscriber should take.

Yet another object of the present invention is to provide a system and method for providing web based interactive golf lessons for a group of subscribers using video conferencing.

Still yet another object of the present invention is to provide a system and method for providing web based interactive golf lessons for a group of subscribers using video conferencing whereby transmission of video and audio is performed in real time.

The foregoing and other objects and advantages will appear from the description to follow. In the description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which forms a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments will be described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention and it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and that structural changes may be made without departing from the scope of the invention. In the accompanying drawings like reference characters designate the same or similar parts throughout the several views.

The present invention relates to a method and system for providing interactive lessons and more specifically web based interactive golf lessons with a golf instructor. The system includes a central server which subscribers and golf instructors can log on to and communicate with one another. A subscriber to the system selectively captures video data representing the subscriber s golf swing and logs onto the central server to upload the captured video data. A golf instructor is able to then download and analyze the swing and provide real time and or delayed instruction to the subscriber through the central server. Alternatively the user may obtain analysis and or instruction in real time using a web camera to display their swing live to an instructor. Furthermore a handheld device can be used by a subscriber to communicate with the central server to receive information concerning golfing anywhere even while on the course. The handheld device may preferably be a cell phone with built in camera or personal digital assistant with cell phone and camera. Another aspect of the present invention is to provide a video conferencing method and apparatus for providing web based interactive group golf lessons. Alternatively users may schedule lessons at predetermined times and or with specific instructors. A further aspect of the present invention provides personalized game plans for each type of shot and club which will be stored in a subscriber s personalized storage area. Each subscriber is provided a personalized storage area for retaining data representing previous lessons instructions analysis and game plans. A further aspect of the present invention provides an environment for the social interaction among its users who can communicate and share information including lesson sessions amongst each other.

Turning now descriptively to the drawings in which similar reference characters denote similar elements throughout the several views.

The subscriber s computer is connected to the Internet via a telecommunications link such as a telephone line a cable line or a wireless connection. As is known in the art the Internet includes providers such as internet access providers and internet service providers and network service providers and routers that provide wired and wireless digital telecommunications throughout the world using TCP IP networking protocol. It should be appreciated that the computer may access the Internet directly or may be operatively connected to a local area network LAN over which information is transmitted to other computers on the same LAN or to computers on other LANs through a localized Intranet. The information can be transmitted between the user and the Internet via the Intranet.

Alternatively a local area network LAN wide area network WAN or other type of network may be used to connect subscribers with instructors . The system is able to function using any means for connection including but not limited to dial up broadband and satellite internet connections. Furthermore the system is optimized to operate using hardwired and wireless connection to the internet. A video camera or webcam is connected to the first computer . The subscriber orients the video camera to capture video data representing at least a portion of a golf swing. The video camera can also be oriented to capture video data of the subscriber s swing from different angles to provide different perspectives as well as close up views of different parts of the subscriber s body e.g. grip foot position head position posture swing plane angle etc. . The captured video data is uploaded to the first computer for processing thereof. Processing of the video data includes but is not limited to conversion from analog to digital format as well as compression of the video data for transmission thereof. When the data is in digital format on the first computer the subscriber can log onto the central server and upload the data representing the at least one golf swing to the central server . Alternatively the subscriber may first log onto the central server and establish a connection with an instructor . The subscriber may then display a golf swing live to a golf instructor at the opposite end of the connection. The camera may be adjusted or zoomed in to view any portion of the subscriber s swing such as the grip or foot position or the camera may be zoomed out to allow the viewing of the entire swing sequence.

In accordance with another preferred embodiment of the present invention the uploaded golfer video clip is converted into two versions. The first version is keyframe heavy and is used to analyze the clip frame by frame with the scrubber or slider . The second version is compressed with a normal optimized keyframe count that matches the web compression standard. This smaller version is loaded first and allows the user to view the swing right away because the bytes per second is significantly lower. The critical keyframe version is loaded behind the scenes immediately afterwards so the user can analyze the sports clip at any point. See also the action script files found below in the source code SwingPlayer.as FullscreenButton.as MuteButton.as ProgressBar.as BigPlayButton.as LoadingScreen.as PlayPauseButton.as KeyframeScreen.as StandardScreen.as and VirtualScreen.as.

The central server provides connectivity between subscribers and golf instructors . Subscribers and golf instructors log onto the central server to communicate with one another. In order to log on subscribers and golf instructors must provide a username and password. This security feature prevents unauthorized use by non subscribing parties. The central server also serves as a storage medium to which subscribers and golf instructors upload data. Such data may include but is not limited to video data and time delayed text or voice messages. Additionally previous lessons may also be stored on the central server to be retrieved by the subscriber or golf instructor for review at any time. Upon logging onto the central server the subscriber may be connected with a golf instructor at random or select an available golf instructor . If the subscriber has a preference for a particular golf instructor the subscriber may choose that golf instructor if available or schedule a lesson at a time when that golf instructor is available.

Once data is uploaded by the subscriber the golf instructor is able to access or download the data from the central server and view and analyze the data representing the subscriber s swing using the second computer . The golf instructor is able to provide real time instruction to the subscriber . Such instruction may include but is not limited to altering the subscriber s posture stance grip tempo and swing plane. Alternatively the subscriber can also choose to receive instruction through time delayed mediums when it s inconvenient for the subscriber and golf instructor to communicate in real time. Additionally the golf instructor can also upload further video data onto the central server for the subscriber to view. This further video data includes but is not limited to marked up versions of the subscriber s original video data to highlight swing faults or archived video data of swings with proper form for the subscriber to use as visualization tools. Instruction may also be provided in real time via live video cameras connected at each end of the communication link. The golf instructor will thus be able to provide real time instruction to the subscriber concerning grip stance and swing as the subscriber is practicing. The instructor may mark on the subscriber s video in real time as it is played during the lesson to illustrate points being made during a live lesson.

The golf instructor is able to verbally communicate with the subscriber by telephone or through online voice communication. The second computer may have a second video camera connected thereto and the golf instructor can communicate with the subscriber via video conferencing. The golf instructor can also use online text or instant messaging to converse with the subscriber . If the subscriber chooses to receive instruction through a time delayed medium then the golf instructor can send an instructional email or leave a voicemail for the subscriber . The golf instructor may also replay the swing of the subscriber and provide audio and visual instruction and commentary to the subscriber during the replay of the swing. All communication between the subscriber and the instructor is stored on the central server and is selectively accessible by each for later use. A benefit of utilizing web based communication is the ability to archive the conversations and lessons on a computer. By having previous conversations and video data archived the subscriber can review past golf lessons administered by the golf instructor . This allows the subscriber to quickly remedy a swing fault that has been addressed by the golf instructor in a previous lesson. This would also make golf lessons more efficient as the golf instructor may review the previous lessons and thereby eliminate the need for the golf instructor to repeat previous lessons with the subscriber during a current session. Alternatively the golf instructor may use the review of lessons to reinforce previous instruction as a review in a subsequent lesson to ensure the subscriber has made the necessary correction and also to compare the prior swing of the user to a current swing. The instructor may also provide voice text and or video messages in the storage area for the subscriber for later viewing in response to a request for instruction. The subscriber can be notified of the stored message via telephone call pager or email or any other suitable means of communication.

The central server provides connectivity between subscribers and golf instructors . Subscribers and golf instructors log onto the central server to communicate with one another. The subscriber may establish a live connection with a golf instructor after logging onto the central server thus allowing the subscriber to display a golf swing live to a golf instructor at the opposite end of the connection. The camera may be adjusted or zoomed in to view any portion of the subscriber s swing such as the grip or foot position or the camera may be zoomed out to allow the viewing of the entire swing sequence. The golf instructor may offer instruction to the subscriber while viewing the video data in a live format.

The subscriber can communicate with the golf instructor by telephone or through online voice and or text communication. To communicate by voice over the communications link the subscriber utilizes a microphone and speakers connected to the first computer . The microphone will capture a voice message from the subscriber for transmission of the message to the central server and or instructor . The speaker will audiblize a message received from the central server and or instructor. The subscriber can also use online text messaging such as using an instant messaging software application to converse with the golf instructor by utilizing the keyboard and or mouse . The subscriber can also choose to send comments and questions and receive instruction through a time delayed medium such as email. The instructor may have an identical setup at the opposite end of the communication thereby allowing the instructor to communicate in a similar medium as the subscriber. In one preferred embodiment the telephone communication uses VOIP for at least part that part of the telephone communication that interfaces with the system of the present invention.

By taking videos from multiple angles the subscriber provides the golf instructor with a more detailed representation of his swing. For example a video from a side view shows shoulder alignment and tilt head position width of stance ball position relative to the subscriber s stance and the club s shaft tilt. A video from the rear view reveals the golfer s spine angle swing plane knee flex and arm position relative to the body. With this information the golf instructor could more easily identify swing faults to provide more specific and accurate instruction to the subscriber . Additionally videos from multiple angles also allow the subscriber to see his own swing from different perspectives. Upon receiving the data representing multiple swing angles the instructor can more completely aid the subscriber and provide more complete instruction. As these different angles provide full views of each body part and swing the golf instructor is able to review each camera angle numerous times concentrating on different body portions and club positions during each viewing. This improves over live lessons as the golf instructor is only able to view the swing once live or the subscriber must repeat the swing numerous times. The subscriber is also able to edit the video captured by the cameras to provide views such as a split screen showing all views at once zooming in on a particular portion of the user s body hands arms feet legs etc. by manipulating the keyboard and or mouse .

A video camera or webcam is connected to the second computer . The golf instructor orients the video camera to capture video data representing a golf swing body position a stance or a golf grip. The video camera can also be oriented to capture video data of the golf instructor from different angles to provide different perspectives. The captured video data is uploaded to the second computer for processing thereof. Processing of the video data includes but is not limited to conversion from analog to digital format as well as compression of the video data for transmission thereof. When the data is in digital format on the second computer the golf instructor uploads the video data along with commentary and or instructions to the central server for viewing by the subscriber. The cameras may be used by the instructor to capture video of the instructor s wing or may simply capture the instructor positioned at the computer to conduct a video conference with the subscriber .

The central server provides connectivity between golf instructors and subscribers . Golf instructors and subscribers log onto the central server to communicate with one another. The golf instructor may establish a live connection with a subscriber after logging onto the central server thus allowing the golf instructor to display a golf position grip or swing live to a subscriber at the opposite end of the connection. The camera may be adjusted or zoomed in to view any portion of the golf instructor s swing such as the grip or foot position or the camera may be zoomed out to allow the viewing of the entire swing sequence. The subscriber may ask questions to the golf instructor while viewing the video data in a live format. Golf instructors may be continually connected to the central server during times they are available to conduct lessons thereby allowing subscribers to know exactly which instructors are available at any particular time and provide for immediate contact with a desired instructor.

Similarly as discussed above regarding a microphone a keyboard a mouse and speakers are connected to the second computer . The instructor further has an electronic touch pen . The instructor is able to utilize these elements to selectively communicate with the subscriber and provide instructional comments and analysis thereto. The microphone and speakers are provided to establish audible communication between the instructor and golfer. The keyboard and mouse can be used to log on and off the server send text messages and emails and edit the display as well as provide written commentary and analysis. The instructor further has an electronic touch pen that is utilized to draw on a touch sensitive screen to highlight certain parts of the screen to aid in instructing.

Additionally the golf instructor is capable of making detailed analysis of the form of the subscriber s swing on a display screen . One way to critique the subscriber s swing with golf swing analysis software is to draw alignment lines to analyze the deviation from ideal positions. The golf instructor can supplement his verbal or text instructions to the subscriber by utilizing the alignment lines . Alternative golf swing analysis methods compare and contrast the subscriber s swing on the left side of the display screen with that of an ideal form swing on the right side of the display screen . By putting the two video images side by side the golf instructor can not only easily point out swing faults but he can also show the subscriber what is needed to correct the swing fault.

Additionally the subscriber can take videos of his swing from multiple angles. By taking videos from multiple angles the subscriber provides the golf instructor with a more detailed representation of his swing. A video from a side view shows shoulder alignment and tilt head position width of stance ball position relative to the subscriber s stance and the club s shaft tilt. A video from the rear view reveals the golfer s spine angle swing plane knee flex and arm position relative to the body. With this information the golf instructor could more easily identify swing faults to provide more specific and accurate instruction to the subscriber .

Additionally videos from multiple angles also allow the subscriber to see his own swing from different perspectives. The split screen may be used to show images from each angle together and synchronized on the screen .

When the subscriber selects the live lesson option the subscriber is brought to step . At step the subscriber is provided two options. If the subscriber had previously scheduled a live lesson with a particular golf instructor the subscriber selects the option to be directly linked to the live lesson with the scheduled golf instructor in step . If the subscriber however has not previously scheduled a lesson the subscriber can select from a list of golf instructors presently available to administer a lesson at the time the subscriber is logged onto the central server in step . The list of available instructors is sorted by expertise. For example one instructor may specialize in short game while another specializes in putting. Additionally if the subscriber is unfamiliar with the instructors available the subscriber may click on a link to read a bio of the instructor s as well as comments from other subscribers who have taken lessons from the instructor. After the subscriber selects a golf instructor the subscriber is connected to a live lesson with the selected instructor in step .

When the subscriber selects the group lesson option in step the subscriber is provided two options. Similarly to the live one on one lessons if the subscriber scheduled a group lesson ahead of time the subscriber selects the option to be directly linked to the group lesson with the scheduled group and golf instructor in step . If the subscriber however does not have a previously scheduled group lesson the subscriber can select an option from a list of group lessons that are available at the time the subscriber is logged onto the central server in step . The list of available lessons is sorted by in categories such as skill level and area of game covered. For example one group lesson my cover iron play for advance golfers while another specializes on gripping a golf clubs for beginners. If the subscriber is unfamiliar with the lesson being offered the subscriber clicks on a link to read a brief description of the offered lesson as well as comments from other subscribers who have taken that particular group lesson. After the subscriber chooses a group lesson to participate in the subscriber is connected to the group lesson in step .

If the subscriber selects access the database archive for general information or archived video data from previous lessons the subscriber is subsequently connected to the database archive containing the information the subscriber previously stored and intends to view in step . The available general information and archived video data are cataloged in the system. The subscriber can choose from a personal archive of lessons notes or a general archive of lessons made available to all subscribers. The subscriber s previous lessons instructions analysis and game plans as well as conversations and video data are stored within the personal archive. The information and video data can be sorted by the subscriber by skill level and or particular area of the golf game such as short game iron play or putting. Once the subscriber selects a particular database the subscriber can then either read the information and or video data from the subscriber s display screen or the subscriber can download the information and or video data from the central server onto the first computer for future viewing in step .

The golf instructor and subscribers are able to communicate by telephone including without limitation VOIP telephony or through online voice communication via the central server . To communicate by voice the golf instructor utilizes the microphone and speakers attached to the instructor s computer . The golf instructor can also use text messaging to converse with the subscribers by typing on the keyboard . The golf instructor can also choose to send golf instruction and receive question and comments through a time delayed medium. The subscribers and golf instructor can exchange emails or leave voicemails for one another. A benefit of utilizing web based communication is the ability to archive the conversations on a computer. By having previous conversations and videos archived the subscribers can review past golf lessons administered by the golf instructor . This allows the subscriber to quickly remedy a swing fault which has already been addressed by the golf instructor in a previous lesson. This would also make golf lessons more efficient as it eliminates the need for the golf instructor to review previous lessons with the subscriber during a current session.

The ability to have a group of subscribers taking web based lessons simultaneously with one golf instructor also has several benefits. One obvious benefit is the cost savings. While group lessons are offered at golf facilities today it is a common occurrence that not enough subscribers sign up for group lessons to constitute a group let alone enough subscribers of the same skill level. Offering group lessons through web based video conferencing eliminates the geographic limitations of having subscribers being from the same locale. With additional subscribers it s also easier to create groups of the same skill level thereby providing the most effective instruction for all subscribers. Furthermore being exposed to the perspective of other subscribers of like skills can offer further insight on the golf instructions.

The present invention uses a game plan to summarize the lessons in a format that can be used on any course for the purpose of helping the subscriber recall lessons while playing. In one embodiment the subscriber is provided with the option to establish a game plan for each type of shot and club tailored to the skill level and abilities of the subscriber for best results. In this embodiment the game plan takes into consideration but is not limited to the following aspects of the subscriber s golf game subscribers overall length with specific golf clubs woods irons wedges natural shot shape draw neutral or fade and playing to the subscriber s strengths driving iron play short game putting . The game plan instructs the subscriber on how to execute a particular golf shot in specific conditions situations. The golf game plan further allows the subscriber to use previously learned lessons on any golf course. The game plan may be provided interactively with the system based upon the subscriber s answers to questions provided by the system concerning the subscriber s golf game or with an instructor in a personalized lesson. In one embodiment the system may also provide guidelines so the subscriber is able to develop a personalized game plan on the run.

The system of the present invention also includes website development and membership plans. The website is hosted on the central server . Information that will be available on the website includes but is not limited to subscriber s name address account balance and hyperlinks to golf instructions. Other information stored on the central server includes membership info usage data and referral data.

The message processor also provides the signal to generate a display image on display devices such as monitors televisions or projectors. The display image provides a visual aid to the subscriber thus allowing the subscriber to make requests through the input devices processors . The signal to generate a display image may also comprise a video used for analysis.

In a preferred embodiment a lesson includes one or more subscribers who access the system from their subscriber computers. The subscriber computers execute web browsers that run a multimedia and application player such as the Adobe Flash Player which can play a variety of media files and perform executable applications written in the scripting language ActionScript.

Any personal computer laptop notebook or handheld device capable of executing software that provides access to the network a web browser and multimedia player support may function as the subscriber computer or client processor. The lesson is conducted over the internet by an instructor acting as the host at an instructor computer running a web browser with multimedia player and utilizing VOIP communication and or a computer microphone and a web or other camera. Any personal computer laptop notebook or handheld device including cell phones and personal digital assistant devices capable of executing software that provides access to the network a web browser and multimedia player support may function as the instructor computer or client processor.

The lesson is managed by a central server. In one preferred embodiment the functionality of the central server may be logically partitioned as comprising a Web Server a Communication Server a Phone Server and optionally a VOIP Gateway. A unique identifier is assigned to a lesson when the lesson is originally scheduled and the participants in the lesson are sent a notification that includes the unique identifier. In one preferred embodiment the unique identifier is a key generated by the web server managing the lesson using a hashing technique such as the MD5 algorithm for generating a 32 hexadecimal digit key. The notification may be sent by email text message or by any method that provides a convenient way for the subscriber to access the lesson and may include for example a link to the web page for the subscriber user interface to the lesson. One participant the instructor is designated as host of the session by virtue of that participant s role in the system. The data transferred among participants includes at least video and audio. At times during the session the host may designate existing video files may create text messages and may select a participant s web camera feed or still images to be played or displayed to participants.

Data streams produced by participants during the lesson are recorded as raw data files at the web server that manages the lesson at the communication server that receives web cam videos and at the phone server. Each of the various data streams recorded or played during a lesson is associated with the unique identifier generated for the lesson. Each file recorded during the lesson is saved as a file accessible by a request to the web server the communication server or the phone server. The data streams may include audio video graphics and text message data created during a lesson. Media files created prior to a lesson may also be played or displayed by the host during the lesson. At the end of the lesson a lesson data file is saved. The lesson data file includes commands that manage each event that occurred during the course of the lesson and that request and identify each of the existing media files sent to participants during the lesson. The VOIP telephone conversation may be recorded by the phone server in a raw format for audio data such as the way file format developed by Microsoft and IBM. At the conclusion of the lesson the file may be recorded into a format more convenient for later playback such as the mp3 file format.

The webcam digital streams from the participants are sent to and distributed by the communication server. When a webcam stream is selected by the instructor for display to all participants on the view screen the stream being sent is recorded by the communication server. The webcam streams may be sent and recorded as flv Flash Video format or in any other format suitable for storage of video data and later playback by commonly available video player software. In one embodiment of the present invention the system uses the TrueMotion VP6 video codec software that enables video compression and or decompression for digital video developed by On2 Technologies. Another embodiment would instead follow the video compression decompression standards of H.264 MPEG 4 AVC. Both may be implemented by Adobe s ActionScript Frameworks.

As the instructor uses the mouse or similar input device to draw on the view screen to call attention to a significant part of a playing video the operating system on his computer captures the changing mouse positions. The mouse positions may be captured as vector graphics commands to allow the same drawing to be generated on the view screen of each participant in the lesson. However the application software for the invention will save the mouse position data only at discrete time intervals or time quanta currently set to 40 ms. and will discard all interim mouse position data. Use of this time quantum setting enables the system to accurately capture the drawings on the screen with reasonable resolution without creating an unduly large and inefficient drawing data file. The drawing commands that produce the vector graphics for display on the view screen may be sent to and saved by the communication server as xml data that contains swf commands executable by a Flash Player.

SWF file format is a partially open repository for multimedia and especially for vector graphics under the control of Adobe. SWF files can be played by the Adobe Flash Player working either as a browser plugin or as a standalone player. SWF files can also be encapsulated with the player creating a self running SWF movie called a projector .

Other commands that affect the data being seen by participants in a lesson such as text passages input by the instructor or commands that split the screen display may similarly be saved at the communication server as xml data.

Still images captured and displayed during a lesson may be sent by the instructor to the web server as JPEG files or in similar formats suitable for storage of image data. The still images may be associated with text passages input by the instructor.

The video files that were previously uploaded by subscribers swing videos may be stored on the web server as fly files. When the files are uploaded by subscribers they may be recorded as flv files using a frame rate suitable for replay over an Internet connection or in a similar format suitable for later replay over the Internet. Again in one embodiment of the present invention the system uses the TrueMotion VP6 video codec in another embodiment the system could instead follow the video compression decompression standards of H.264 MPEG 4 AVC.

In a typical lesson the instructor may display a first video of a golf swing that was previously recorded by a subscriber and uploaded to the instructor for analysis. While discussing the video the instructor may create drawn graphics on the video by drawing on the screen with a mouse or similar input device as the video plays to indicate relevant features of the video and to recommend changes in the student s performance. The instructor may also demonstrate techniques using a web camera web cam to broadcast streaming images to the other participants. A subscriber can transmit web cam images of his own performance when that subscriber s web cam feed is selected for broadcast by the instructor. The instructor may also select a snapshot or still image for broadcast to illustrate some point. As the lesson progresses the instructor may save still images from the screen along with text of significant points to remember as tips. A still image may be associated with a saved tip as part of a student Game Plan for later display.

In accordance with one preferred embodiment a lesson data file is created that identifies each media file used in or created during the lesson and the time in the lesson at which each media item was played paused rewound or skipped to a particular position. The lesson data file also references the VOIP main audio file. The features described herein as comprising a typical lesson may be applied to many other types of interactions in which a plurality of participants interact and exchange media and the example given is meant to characterize but not to limit the utility of the system described.

The web server is provided for managing the lesson and may be connected to a database and to the Internet . The web server may be a computer that runs a general purpose HTTP server such as the Apache HTTP Server developed by the Apache Software Foundation under a general purpose operating system such as Linux and using a database management system such as the MySQL relational database manager provided by MySQL AB a subsidiary of Sun Microsystems. The web server is able to connect to each of the participants and to a database. The web server is able to process requests received from clients and send back organized constructed content from the database and from its file system to each client processor. The Communication Server Comm Server is provided for managing the transfer of digital information among the instructor and students and is connected to a file system and to the Internet . The Communication Server may be a computer that runs a multimedia and data server with scripting capability for server side scripts and remote procedure calls such as the functionality provided by the Adobe Flash Media Server. The Comm Server is able to accept controls and terminate all transfer of digital information with each participant during the session in real time.

The Phone Server for listening for incoming connections from each participant s VOIP telephone and receiving and managing VOIP data is connected to a file system and to the Internet . The phone server may be a computer that runs an Internet Protocol PBX software package to handle switching control of VOIP communications such as the Trixbox telephony application support software developed by Fonality. The phone server is able to listen for incoming connections from each participant s telephone accept and record VOIP data and communicate VOIP status to the communication server.

If the instructor and subscriber wish to communicate using conventional phones or cell phones rather than soft phones on their computers a VOIP Gateway is able to provide a connection between the conventional phone service and the Internet or network. The VOIP Gateway may be a device or service provided by a third party such as Telasip Inc.

The logical separation and identification of the servers shown in the diagram does not necessarily reflect their physical configuration and other configurations may be contemplated as long as the functions set forth herein are able to be performed.

The various data streams produced by participants during the session audio video graphics and text are recorded as raw data files at the web server that manages the interactive session at the communication server that receives web cam videos or at the phone server that handles the VOIP conversation. Each of the various data streams recorded or played during a session is associated with the unique session identifier that was generated for the session. Each file recorded during the session is saved as a file accessible by a request to the web server the communication server or the phone server. Media files created prior to a session and played or displayed by the host during the session are also identified as part of the session. In particular one video file selected by the host is designated as a first video that is the first one broadcast to participants although additional videos may be broadcast at other times during the session. When additional media files are designated for play or display the designated file is downloaded to all participants and a progress message is shown until the file has been received over the slowest participant connection. The time at which the requested media file has been successfully downloaded to the last participant is noted as the Max Download Time for the requested file. At the end of the session a Session Data File is saved. The Session Data File includes commands that manage each event that occurred during the course of the session and that request and identify each of the existing media files associated with the session.

One session with the features described above that is used in a preferred embodiment of the present invention is an on line interactive lesson teaching golf skills. As an exemplary embodiment of the invention the system can be implemented for playback of such a lesson via an internet connection. The lesson may be an individual or group lesson. A unique lesson identifier is sent to each participant in the lesson. Audio connections are provided via a phone server supporting VOIP. In the lesson a student can demonstrate his swing for the instructor over a web cam or the instructor can play a prerecorded video of the student s swing that has been previously uploaded to the system database and made available to the instructor for analysis. The instructor can use on screen drawing tools to draw on the video as it plays to indicate improvements to the student s stance address swing arc etc. while providing verbal commentary as the pre recorded video plays. The instructor can also provide an exemplary swing from a database of available video files and can place the exemplary swing in a full screen or a split screen view to illustrate significant differences between the student s swing and the exemplary swing noting the differences with on screen drawing tools. The student may respond with questions comments and another web cam swing. The instructor may also provide tips and suggestions either created in real time or played from pre existing files. In a group lesson additional student videos questions and comments may be provided before or during the lesson for additional instructor comment. A student or instructor may request playback of the lesson at his own location any time after completion of the lesson by logging in and sending a request containing the unique lesson identifier to the web server.

In a typical lesson in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the system the instructor displays a first video of for example a student golf swing that was previously recorded by a student and uploaded to the instructor for analysis. While discussing the video the instructor draws on the screen with a mouse or similar input device as the video plays to indicate relevant features of the video and to recommend changes in the student s performance. The instructor may also demonstrate techniques using a web camera web cam to broadcast streaming images to the other participants. A student participant can also transmit web cam images of his own performance when selected for broadcast by the instructor. Other students may also contribute comments and questions as well as their own web cam images. The instructor may also select a snapshot or still image for broadcast to illustrate some point. A still image may be associated with a saved tip as part of a student Game Plan for display during playback at the end of the session. The instructor may close with another pre recorded video offering some final tips to reiterate instructive points.

In accordance with preferred embodiments the student and the instructor are provided with user interfaces relevant to them for the type of lesson and for playback of same. The user interfaces used in one preferred embodiment of the present invention for use with a golf lesson are shown for example in and .

For the instructor the auxiliary view area comprises controls that enable the instructor to select what will be displayed in the main viewing area. The instructor may click on the webcam feed of the student or the instructor to cause it to be displayed in place of the selected video in the view screen area. See . The selected webcam stream is then recorded on the communication server as well as being transmitted to all participants and becomes part of the playback records for the lesson. When one of the webcam feeds is selected for display in the main viewing area its image in the auxiliary view area is replaced by the current frame of the video being displayed so that the image area in the auxiliary viewing area acts as a toggle button. Optionally the selected webcam stream can include audio if the attendee needs to step away from the phone to demonstrate something.

The tip controls comprise a text entry box for the instructor to enter text to be displayed to all participants and a Save Tip button for saving the text that is currently displayed in the text entry box along with a screen shot of the current main viewing area as a Tip that comprises a game plan for the subscriber see . During a lesson the last screen shot selected by the Save Tip button will display in the Screenshot Tips area.

The video player controls comprise a standard positional slider that may be dragged to any point in the video file and standard play and rewind buttons allowing the instructor to control and reposition the video file in the main viewing area. When a webcam feed is selected for display in the main viewing area the video player controls are disabled since the webcam feed is live. The instructor drawing controls allow the instructor to use the mouse or input device to draw vector graphics that appear over the playing video and to split the screen for display of two videos concurrently. The drawing controls comprise a freehand draw control a straight line draw control a rectangle draw control a circle draw control an eraser and a split screen control. When the split screen control is clicked a browser window can pop up to allow the instructor to select the media to be displayed from the instructor s library of videos or from a default library.

Although an exemplary golf lesson is described the features and elements comprising a typical session may be applied to many other types of interactions in which a plurality of participants interact and exchange media and the example given is meant to characterize but not to limit the utility of the system described herein. In another preferred embodiment the participants in a session are all are equally enabled to draw play video send text and select webcam feeds.

During the session a Session Data File is created that identifies each media file used in or created during the session and the time in the session at which each media item was played paused rewound or skipped to a particular position. The Session Data File includes commands that manage each event that occurred during the session. The Session Data File also references the VOIP File. In a preferred embodiment the Session Data File is saved as an XML file but any file format suitable for parsing and interpretation of the file names and events therein may be used.

The VOIP File is a record of the conversation among the participants conducted via VOIP telephony that is saved by the phone server at the end of the session in a standard format such as the way file format developed by Microsoft and IBM or the mp3 compressed audio file format developed by MPEG.

Pre existing video files may be designated for play during the session. In a preferred embodiment these files are available on the web server preferably as swf format files supported by the Adobe Flash Player or other video player plugins or in another format suitable for play on a multimedia enabled web browser.

During the session software developed for the application translates movements of the mouse or other input device into vector drawing instructions. The vector drawing instructions are sent to and may be saved on the communication server. In a preferred embodiment these vector drawing instructions are recorded and saved to the communication server only at regular intervals and interim values of the mouse position are discarded. This interval of time is sometimes referred to as a time quantum. In this preferred embodiment a 40 millisecond time resolution is sufficient for the representation of the drawn data. Though in other embodiments a different interval of time to execute record and or save instructions may be warranted by performance issues. The vector drawing instructions may be saved in XML format expressing commands or in any format suitable for later execution during playback by the media player software on the client processor.

The webcam digital streams from the participants are sent to and distributed by the communication server. When a webcam stream is selected for display to all participants on the view screen the stream being sent is recorded by the communication server. The webcam streams may be sent and recorded as flv Flash Video format or in any other format suitable for storage of video data and later playback by commonly available video player software.

Still images for display during the session may be available on the web server. Snapshots of playing video or webcam feeds may be saved on the web server as JPEG files.

The playback control system enables the playback of the media files created or used during a live teleconference or distributed interactive session. During a session at least two participants use their computers to exchange multiple types of information in real time including VOIP conversation and at least one video file. The files created or used during a session may also include text data drawn vector graphics and web camera webcam feeds. A description of such a session and the files created and used therein will facilitate the detailed description of the playback control system follows. See also Database Schema Tables 1 through 39 and the action script files found in the source code below for further description of preferred embodiments of the present invention.

The block diagram shown in shows a system that supports on a Client Processor executing a multitasking operating system and graphically enabled web browser the retrieval and playback of the captured media files to reproduce a previously completed session synchronizing the files as they play so that the data of each file is played or displayed at the proper time relative to the other files. The system comprises a client processor executing a multitasking operating system such as Microsoft Windows XP or Macintosh OS X and including a Display and Local Storage . The executable procedures of the system execute under a browser and utilize a commonly available multimedia and application player such as the commonly installed Adobe Flash Player plug in which is capable of executing ActionScript sequences or similar embedded procedures in the web pages being displayed. The system further includes a Web Server with a Session Database a Communication Server with its file system and a Phone Server with its file system each server being electronically connected to the client processor. In a preferred embodiment the servers and the client processors are connected via a network connection such as is provided by the Internet.

The web server runs a general purpose HTTP server such as the Apache HTTP Server developed by the Apache Software Foundation under a general purpose operating system such as Linux and using a database management system such as the MySQL relational database manager provided by MySQL AB a subsidiary of Sun Microsystems. The web server also provides a capability for creating and serving dynamic web pages such as for example the PHP scripting language produced by The PHP Group. During a session and during playback the web server is able to connect to each of the participants and to a database. During a session and during playback the web server processes requests received from clients and sends back organized constructed content from the database and from its file system to each client processor.

The phone server runs an Internet Protocol PBX software package to handle switching control of VOIP communications such as the Trixbox telephony application support software developed by Fonality. During a session the phone server listens for incoming connections from each participant s telephone connects to each participant s telephone accepts and records VOIP data and communicates VOIP status to the communication server. During playback the phone server responds to requests for previously recorded files containing VOIP data.

The communication server runs a multimedia and data server with scripting capability for server side scripts and remote procedure calls such as the functionality provided by the Adobe Flash Media Server. During the session the communication server establishes a persistent connection with each participant using a protocol for persistent connection such as the Real Time Messaging Protocol RTMP supported by the Adobe Flash Media Server. During the session the communication server manages the persistent connection among participants and accepts controls and terminates all transfer of digital information with each client in real time except for the VOIP data saving the webcam feeds and the commands that affect the data played or displayed to participants. Webcam feeds are formatted and saved by the communication server as flv files during the live session. During playback the communication server manages a persistent connection with the user receives and processes requests for web camera playback files and sends the requested files to the client processor.

Of course there is no requirement that these servers be physically separate. The logical separation and identification of the servers shown herein does not necessarily reflect their physical configuration and other configurations may be contemplated as long as the functions set forth herein are able to be performed.

In a preferred embodiment to initiate playback a participant at a client processor sends a request via his browser to the Web Server for playback of a session. The page returned includes executable procedures for performing the playback functions as well as graphics that provide affordances for control of the playback functions and a unique identifier that identifies the session to be played. The Session Data File which characterizes the session and is stored on the Web Server in the Session Database is returned. After analysis of the retrieved Session Data File to identify the various media files created or used in the session the identified media files are requested and retrieved by the Client Processor from the Web Server from the Phone Server and its file system and from the Communication Server and its file system . Media files retrieved by the client processor may be temporarily saved on the client processor local storage for play at the appropriate time on the display .

When activated by a user the Playback Request module sends to the web server a request for playback of a session . The request is made by activating a control on a web page or by clicking a particular link provided to the user for requesting playback. The user s browser then requests and receives the session key and also an interface page that includes the playback executable code . In one embodiment the playback executable code comprises a set of procedures in ActionScript which can be executed by the media and application enabled web browser. show illustrative design arrangement for a user interface for playback control for one embodiment of the present invention. In this embodiment the interface page comprises a display area and controls to enable viewing and controlling the playback of the session. After verifying that the client is permitted to access the requested session the web server also returns the Session Data File that identifies the events and files associated with the session .

The Data Analysis module analyzes the received Session Data File to identify all media files needed for the session including the VOIP File. The Media Request Receive module sends requests to the appropriate servers for download of the identified files. The VOIP File is requested from the Phone Server any pre recorded video files to be played are requested from the Web Server and any webcam playback files are requested from the Communication Server . When the files have been successfully downloaded to the local computer as determined in step the playback control graphics are activated and the user can begin playback by pressing the Master Play Button .

Additional media identified by the Data Analysis module may be requested separately and may be downloaded in background by the Media Request Receive module while playback is in progress.

The Synch Interval Timer is responsible for determining when it is time to resynchronize the playback media files as they are playing. It keeps track of the time since the last resynchronization. In a preferred embodiment the Synch Interval Timer is nominally initialized to a 30 second interval but the initial value of the Synch Interval Timer may be adjusted by user input to provide more or less frequent resynchronization checks. In an alternative embodiment the initial Synch Interval Timer value may be automatically adjusted by incorporating feedback into the system to adjust the interval if the calculated time difference of the separate media files is greater or less than threshold limits.

The VOIP Player controls play of the record of the telephone conversation that occurred during the session the VOIP File . In one preferred embodiment the VOIP File begins when the session begins and continues to the end of the session. However the VOIP File cannot function as a controlling timeline for the session because playing the VOIP File under the security restrictions imposed by the browser and multimedia player environment can cause play of the file to deviate from actual elapsed time and the VOIP File must therefore be resynchronized with the play of other media files.

In one embodiment of the present invention the VOIP Player is implemented as PhoneCall.as which appears in the source code below. It manages the audio phone conference file VOIP File . It contains functions to request download of the VOIP File  playbackLoaded check progress of the VOIP File during playback  progressHandler play the VOIP File and pause and resume the VOIP File.

The remaining player modules Video Player Webcam Playback Player Text Message Player and Drawing Player each execute under control of the Command Manager to play or display the corresponding type of media.

The Video Player controls play of any pre recorded video files to the display of the client processor. Because the session uses VOIP telephony for its audio communication sound data associated with the pre recorded video files may be disabled from play as is done in one preferred embodiment but sound could optionally be enabled and played in addition to or instead of the VOIP File. The Video Player operates in response to instructions from the Command Manager .

The Webcam Playback Player plays any webcam feed files that were sent to all participants during the session. These files were saved by the communication server. Because the session uses VOIP telephony for its audio communication sound data associated with the webcam files may be disabled from play as is done in the current embodiment but webcam sound could optionally be played in addition to or instead of the VOIP File. The Webcam Playback Player operates in response to instructions from the Command Manager .

The Text Message Player displays text message and status message data entered or displayed during a session. In a preferred embodiment the text and status messages are saved on the communication server and are later sent to the web server as part of the Session Data File. The Text Message Player operates in response to instructions from the Command Manager . The Drawing Player plays vector graphics that were drawn to the screen by use of the computer mouse or other input device and were sent to all participants. The commands to create these vector graphics were stored as a sequence of commands in the Session Data File that is saved to the database of the Web Server . The Drawing Player operates in response to instructions from the Command Manager .

In one embodiment of the present invention the Command Manager is implemented as Commands.as which can be found in the source code below. It manages the commands from the session file. At initialization of playback it saves the current date and time. On each execution it then computes the elapsed time converts the value to time quantum units and executes any commands in the session data file with time values equal to the elapsed time quantum. Commands are executed in order according to the event type by instantiating the appropriate command player CamController DrawScreen etc. . It also contains functions to pause resume and restart the execution of commands.

The Command Manager executes the commands from the Session Data File. The commands executed by the Command Manager were created during the original session to reflect all actions of selecting requesting playing and controlling various media for the session participants. The commands are stored in the Session Data File in XML format or other format suitable for parsing and execution. The structure and nature of the commands are described in more detail below. The Command Manager begins by repeatedly examining the Playback Elapsed Time which it computes by querying the master clock and subtracting the value of the saved Initial Playback Time to determine how much time has actually passed since the Initial Playback Time was saved and playback began . . After determining the Playback Elapsed Time the Command Manager compares the Playback Elapsed Time with the next Command Time in the file of commands . Because the Command Time is saved in the command as a number of time quanta nominally in units of 40 milliseconds the Command Time must be converted to the same units of milliseconds to make the comparison. If the Playback Elapsed Time is equal to the next Command Time all commands for that time will be executed using the various media players to perform the operations and . If the command that was executed was a command to End the Session then some housekeeping tasks are performed and playback is ended otherwise execution returns to check the current local time again until the next Command Time is equal to the Playback Elapsed Time.

An event in a command is an occurrence that changes the data being displayed such as selection of a new video a movement of the mouse or pen during drawing or display of a status or text message. Events are executed by the Command Manager according to their event type. Event types comprise session events draw events webcam events video events message events and playback events. The events except for the playback events reflect occurrences during the session. Session events which have the highest priority include starting saving and ending the session connection status events reflecting any change in connection status with any of the servers and failure notices. Session events are always executed first in any time quantum. Draw events include vector graphic commands for placing marks on the video screen such as freehand straight line circle color change and clear. As mentioned earlier only a single draw event is saved for any given quantum of time. Webcam events include stream in stream out start full screen and stop full screen. The webcam feed unlike the video files is streamed since it was simply playing in real time during the session. The video files in contrast exist in their entirety before the session begins and are downloaded before play because a pre existing video file might be skipped forward during the session to any arbitrary position. Video events include play pause of the audio and of the video split screening dragging the video or seeking to a position rewinding and checking download progress. Message events include text messages and a lesson note sent from the host. Playback events are events generated during the playback itself either by user inputs during playback to control the progress of the playback or by the system. Playback events include pausing and starting the Command Manager and the VOIP Player synching and resynching and disabling and enabling the user interface. Some playback events thus share characteristics of the video events since playing back a session is similar to playing a video and some are status events.

The arguments of a command are parameters identifying the particular event such as the drawing action to be performed and other information needed to perform the event such as co ordinates for a drawing action or an identifier for the media file to be played. In the example in the draw event is the command freehand down first argument at screen position horizontal second argument and vertical third argument . illustrates a partial list of command events in one embodiment of the invention. Certain events are not allowed to occupy the same time quantum as others. For example draw events cannot occupy the same time quantum as some video commands such as SEEK TO and SEEK TO cannot occupy the same time quantum as DRAG.

In an alternative preferred embodiment of the Command Manager that corresponds to the Playback Request module embodiment of some media files may have been requested and are being downloaded in background while playback is in progress. If playback is begun before all media files have been downloaded the Command Manager will verify that a needed media file is available before executing the command that requires the file. Media that was requested in background and has been preloaded will not be played until the time point at which the media began playing in the original live session. This time point the Max Download Time can be calculated from information in the Session Data File because the event of Media Loaded was saved for the requested file for each participant. While the system is waiting on a media download the user interface is disabled and no resynching will be performed by the Resynch Controller. During playback because it is not necessary to wait for data transmission to the slowest client connection and the client processor does not have an open communication stream the playback is likely to download the requested media more rapidly than the live session did. However when the command to be executed during playback requires a particular media file the Command Manager will check whether download of the needed file has completed and will pause both the Command Manager and the VOIP Player step if necessary until file download is complete at which point command execution resumes .

When the user presses the Master Play Button to begin playback of the session the Synch Interval Timer which will determine when to resynchronize the playing files and the Resynch Controller which will maintain synchronization of the media files as they are played are both initialized . The current date and time from the local master clock are saved as the Initial Playback Time . The Resynch Controller then initializes the Command Manager and the VOIP Player to play the session. The VOIP Player and the Command Manager execute as separate processes.

In accordance with one preferred embodiment of the present invention the playback module retrieves the playback commands. The recorder utility records the commands during the live session. The Command Manager which is playback specific only processes the commands during playback.

Videos used during the session are brief enough that separate synchronization with a playing video is unnecessary. In an alternative embodiment to support play of longer video files the timing of the file being played by the Video Player may be included in the determination of which processes should be paused and which should be allowed to continue.

The VOIP Player and the Command Manager execute as separate processes the VOIP Player playing the VOIP File and the Command Manager executing commands from the Session Data File. The commands are generally accomplished by controlling the other media players. However these separate processes can fall out of synchronization with each other as the multitasking operating system of the Client Processor assigns time slots to execute higher priority tasks resulting in incorrect playback. Thus the system comprises procedures to maintain synchronization of the processes. The Resynch Controller performs periodic resynchronizations.

In accordance with one preferred embodiment of the present invention the Resynch Controller resynchronizes the VOIP File played by the VOIP Player with the other media files played by the Command Manager. At initialization of the session playback the Synch Interval Timer is initialized to the Synch Internal Time. At the expiration of the Synch Interval Time the Resynch Controller module executes to bring the separate processes back into synchronization.

In one embodiment of the present invention the Resynch Controller is implemented as SyncController.as which can be found in the source code below. It controls the synchronization of the VOIP Player and the Command Manager. It initializes a timer to the RESINK INTERVAL 30 seconds . It also defines functions to compare the values of the Command Manager and VOIP Player elapsed time of playback and to pause execution of either the VOIP Player PAUSE PHONECALL or the Command Manager PAUSE COMMANDS for the length of time in milliseconds equal to the difference between the values. The functions are executed when the timer reaches the RESINK INTERVAL value. Whichever process was paused is resumed at the end of the pause time. This module also contains code to check whether a split screen has been requested and if so to pause playback for the additional video file to be downloaded. Playback is paused for the time that the video downloaded in the live lesson.

The Resynch Controller then computes the Pause Time as the absolute value of the difference between the Elapsed Command Time and the Audio File Time Position. The Resynch Controller next compares the Elapsed Command Time with the VOIP File Time Position in order to determine whether either process must be paused to resynchronize the media as playback progresses. In order to compare the two values the Elapsed Command Time is converted to milliseconds.

The more advanced process will be paused for the Pause Time while the tardy process continues playing to catch up. Synchronizing in this fashion guarantees that no data is lost or skipped as a result of the resynching process while the playing files are returned to relative synchronization. If the Command Manager is more advanced the Command Manager will be paused while the VOIP File continues playing . If the VOIP Player is more advanced the VOIP Player will be paused while the Command Manager continues executing . The Synch Interval Timer will then be reinitialized to the Synch Interval Time to determine the next synch interval. If the Command Manager has been paused when it is restarted its check of the local time on the master clock will enable it to determine the accurate Elapsed Command Time in order to determine when the next commands are ready to be executed.

Resynchronizing in the course of a media request need not occur for any pre existing media file requested during the course of the session because play of other media is controlled by the Command Manager. Instead as discussed earlier the Max Download Time for the media download during the session is available can be calculated from information in the Session Data File as a limit for the media download during playback and other processes are synched to that value.

All media files downloaded during playback of a session are cached until the user leaves the application and if the session playback is repeated before exiting the application cached media will be used rather than reloading the media from the remote database. However the media is not permanently stored to the user s local system. In an alternate embodiment all media files that comprise a session can be optionally permanently saved to the user s local system on first playback request and playback can thereafter be done from the local files.

In another embodiment a processor performing playback of a session can concurrently instantiate another process to record and encode the session as it is played back using functionality such as that provided by the open source software RecordMyDesktop thereby producing a standard playable merged audio and video file. The file produced can be any format of playable integrated audio and video such as the mp4 format from MPEG or the QuickTime or mov file format available from Apple or an open source format such as the ogg file format maintained by the Xiph.org Foundation. Thereafter the standard playable A V file produced can be used for playback on any device capable of playing video files. The file created can also be saved to the database for future download and playback.

The present invention is disclosed for use in providing individualized or group personal golf lessons and instructions. However this system may be used for providing individualized or group personal lessons and instruction for any number of different activities including but not limited to tennis baseball cooking knitting arts and crafts medical rehabilitation exercises home improvement and automobile repair.

In this disclosure herein the invention is described with reference to acts and symbolic representations of operations that are performed by one or more computers unless indicated otherwise. As such it will be understood that such acts and operations which were at times referred to as being computer executed include the manipulation by the processing unit of the computer of electrical signals representing data in a structured form. This manipulation transforms the data or maintains it at locations in the memory system of the computer which reconfigures or otherwise alters the operation of the computer in a manner well understood by those skilled in the art. The data structures where data is maintained are physical locations of the memory that have particular properties defined by the format of the data. However while the invention was described in the foregoing context it is not meant to be limiting as those of skill in the art will appreciate that various of the acts and operations described hereinafter may also be implemented in hardware. In view of the many possible embodiments to which the principles of this invention may be applied it should be recognized that the embodiments described herein with respect to the drawing figures is meant to be illustrative only and should not be taken as limiting the scope of invention. For example those of skill in the art will recognize again that the elements of the illustrated embodiment shown in software may be implemented in hardware and vice versa or that the illustrated embodiment can be modified in arrangement and detail without departing from the spirit of the invention. Therefore the invention as described herein contemplates all such embodiments as may come within the scope of the following claims and equivalents thereof. While certain novel features of this invention have been shown and described and are pointed out in the annexed claims it is not intended to be limited to the details above since it will be understood that various omissions modifications substitutions and changes in the forms and details of the device illustrated and in its operation can be made by those skilled in the art without departing in any way from the spirit of the present invention.

Tables 1 through 39 show database table schema for a database in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the invention directed to a coach and his her student. The database tables contain information regarding user information for both coaches and students such as lesson types available lessons scheduled lesson packages purchased pro schedules game plans friendships and videos uploaded and are used throughout the system.

Action script files related to the method and system of synchronization in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention. 2009 Interactive Sports Direct Incorporated.

The Recorder.as source code file constructs and saves the events to the Lesson Data File during the course of a lesson. Events are saved as XML text strings that include a time of occurrence measured from the start of the lesson to the nearest whole Quantum of Time 40 milliseconds along with any arguments necessary to characterize the event.

The SaveLesson.as source code file contains the code that saves the completed lesson data file for later playback.

In one embodiment of the present invention the Resynch Controller is implemented as SyncController.as. It controls the synchronization of the VOIP Player and the Command Manager. It initializes a timer to the RESINK INTERVAL 30 seconds . It also defines functions to compare the values of the Command Manager and VOIP Player elapsed time of playback and to pause execution of either the VOIP Player PAUSE PHONECALL or the Command Manager PAUSE COMMANDS for the length of time in milliseconds equal to the difference between the values. The functions are executed when the timer reaches the RESINK INTERVAL value. Whichever process was paused is resumed at the end of the pause time. This module also contains code to check whether a split screen has been requested and if so to pause playback for the additional video file to be downloaded. Playback is paused for the time that the video downloaded in the live lesson.

In one embodiment of the present invention the Command Manager is implemented as Commands.as. It manages the commands from the session file. At initialization of playback it saves the current date and time. On each execution it then computes the elapsed time converts the value to time quantum units and executes any commands in the session data file with time values equal to the elapsed time quantum. Commands are executed in order according to the event type by instantiating the appropriate command player CamController DrawScreen etc. . It also contains functions to pause resume and restart the execution of commands.

In one embodiment of the present invention the VOIP Player is implemented as PhoneCall.as. It manages the audio phone conference file VOIP File . It contains functions to request download of the VOIP File  playbackLoaded check progress of the VOIP File during playback  progressHandler play the VOIP File and pause and resume the VOIP File.

In one preferred embodiment of the present the uploaded golfer video clip is converted into two versions. The first version is keyframe heavy and is used to analyze the clip frame by frame with the scrubber or slider . The second version is compressed with a normal optimized keyframe count that matches the web compression standard. This smaller version is loaded first and allows the user to view the swing right away because the bytes per second is significantly lower. The critical keyframe version is loaded behind the scenes immediately afterwards so the user can analyze the sports clip at any point.

Relevant source code for this embodiment can be found below and relevant action script files are named SwingPlayer.as FullscreenButton.as MuteButton.as ProgressBar.as BigPlayButton.as LoadingScreen.as PlayPauseButton.as KeyframeScreen.as StandardScreen.as and VirtualScreen.as.

