---

title: Rock inhibitors and uses thereof
abstract: The subject invention concerns compositions and methods for blocking cancer cell growth or proliferation and/or inducing cancer cell death. Compositions of the present invention are compounds that inhibit Rho-protein associated kinase function. Compounds of the invention include piperazinyl pyridines, piperazinylmethyl pyridines, piperazinyl ureas and carbamates, piperazinyl pyridines and quinoilines (including isoquinliones) as well as piperazinyl (including piperazinylmethyl) pyridines and quinolines (including isoquinolines). Compounds of the invention disrupt Rho-kinase activation and function and significantly inhibit tumor cell growth and induce tumor cell death.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08993760&OS=08993760&RS=08993760
owner: Yale University
number: 08993760
owner_city: New Haven
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090622
---
This application is a continuation of prior filed International Application Serial Number PCT US2007 088316 filed Dec. 20 2007 which claims priority to U.S. provisional patent application No. 60 871 026 filed Dec. 20 2006 which is hereby incorporated by reference into this disclosure.

This invention was made with Government support under Grant No. U19 CA067771 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

This invention relates to materials and methods for blocking tumor growth and inducing tumor cell death by disrupting the activity of Rho associated protein kinases.

Rho GTPase is a small G protein which plays a critical role in signaling pathways and controls cell growth and division. A molecular switch control modifications in the actin cytoskeleton during cell proliferation transformation migration and morphogenesis. Rho must be located at the interior of plasma membrane and is translocated by attachment of C 20 geranyl geranyl group to a C terminal. GTP bound form Rho is switched on and interacts with a variety of downstream effectors such as Rho Kinase. 

Rho associated protein kinase is known as ROCK or Rho kinase Ser Thr protein kinase and is activated by GTP bound Rho then phosphorylate and transduce the cell signals. Rho Rho Kinase signaling pathways are implicated in cell morphology motility smooth muscle contraction formation of stress fiber focal adhesion cell transformation and cytokineses.

The subject invention concerns compositions and methods for blocking cancer cell growth or proliferation and or inducing cancer cell death. Compositions of the present invention are compounds that inhibit Rho associated protein associated kinase function. Compounds of the invention include piperazinyl pyridines piperazinylmethylpyridines piperazinyl ureas and carbamates piperazinyl pyridines and quinoilines including isoquinliones as well as piperazinyl including piperazinylmethyl pyridines and quinolines including isoquinolines . Compounds of the invention disrupt Rho kinase activation and function and significantly inhibit tumor cell growth and induce tumor cell death.

The subject invention concerns compositions for blocking cancer cell growth or proliferation and or inducing cancer cell death. Compositions of the invention are inhibitors of Rho associated protein kinases. Compounds of the invention include piperazinyl pyridines piperazinylmethylpyridines piperazinyl ureas and carbamates piperazinyl pyridines and quinoilines including isoquinliones as well as piperazinyl including piperazinylmethyl pyridines and quinolines including isoquinolines .

In an illustrative embodiment additional embodiments are discussed below a compound of the invention has the general structure shown in formula I.

In a preferred embodiment R1 is a heteroaryl such as pyridyl quinolinyl or isoquinolinyl. R2 and R3 are individually selected from alkyl alkoxy cycloalkyl cycloalkoxy aryl aryloxy alkylcarbonyl alkoxycarbonyl cycloalkylcarbonyl heteroalkyl heterocycloalkyl heterocycloalkylcarbonyl heteroaryl arylcarbonyl heteroarylcarbonyl aryloxycarbonyl heteroaryloxycarbonyl heterocycloalkoxy or heterocycloalkoxycarbonyl any of which can be optionally substituted with one or more of the following any halogen CN COOH O OH NO2 NH2 N alkyl alkyl alkoxy cycloalkyl cycloalkoxy aryl aryloxy alkylcarbonyl alkoxycarbonyl cycloalkylcarbonyl heteroalkyl heterocycloalkyl heterocycloalkylcarbonyl heteroaryl arylcarbonyl heteroarylcarbonyl aryloxycarbonyl heteroaryloxycarbonyl heterocycloalkoxy or heterocycloalkoxycarbonyl including salts thereof.

In a preferred embodiment compounds of the invention have an R1 group selected from pyridyl and quinolinyl moieties. For example in one embodiment R1 is pyridyl. In another embodiment R1 is a quinolinyl. In an exemplified embodiment R1 is isoquinolinyl.

In another embodiment R2 is Bn CH2OBn Me i Pr Bu OBn and Ph or a salt thereof. In yet another embodiment R3 is selected from the group consisting of CH3 Boc H COCH2NH2 or COCH2NHBoc or other acceptable protecting group or a salt thereof.

As used herein alkyl means straight or branched chain saturated or mono or polyunsaturated hydrocarbon groups having from 1 to 20 carbon atoms and C1 x alkyl means straight or branched chain alkyl groups containing from one up to X carbon atoms wherein X is any positive integer. For example C1 6 alkyl means straight or branched chain alkyl groups containing from one up to 6 carbon atoms. Alkoxy means an alkyl O group in which the alkyl group is as previously described. Cycloalkyl includes a nonaromatic monocyclic or multicyclic ring system including fused and spiro rings of from about three to about 10 carbon atoms. A cyclic alkyl may optionally be partially unsaturated. Alkylcarbonyl means a RC O group where R is an alkyl group as previously described. Alkoxycarbonyl means an ROC O group where R is an alkyl group as previously described. Cycloalkylcarbonyl means an RC O group where R is a cycloalkyl group as previously described. Cycloalkoxycarbonyl means an ROC O group where R is a cycloalkyl group as previously described. Heteroalkyl means a straight or branched chain having from one to 20 carbon atoms and one or more heteroatoms selected from nitrogen oxygen or sulphur wherein the nitrogen and sulphur atoms may optionally be oxidized i.e. in the form of an N oxide or an S oxide. Heterocycloalkyl means a monocyclic or multicyclic ring system which may be saturated or partially unsaturated including fused and spiro rings of about five to about 10 elements wherein one or more of the elements in the ring system is an element other than carbon and is selected from nitrogen oxygen silicon or sulphur atoms. Cycloalkoxy means a cycloalkyl O group in which cycloalkyl is as defined herein.

Examples of saturated alkyl groups include but are not limited to methyl ethyl N propyl isopropyl N butyl tert butyl isobutyl sec butyl N pentyl N hexyl N heptyl and N octyl. An unsaturated alkyl group is one having one or more double or triple bonds. Unsaturated alkyl groups include for example ethenyl propenyl butenyl hexenyl vinyl 2 propynyl 2 isopentenyl 2 butadienyl ethynyl 1 propynyl 3 propynyl and 3 butynyl. Cycloalkyl groups include for example cyclopentyl cyclohexyl 1 cyclohexenyl 3 cyclohexenyl and cycloheptyl. Heterocycloalkyl groups include for example 1 piperidinyl 2 piperidinyl 3 piperidinyl 3 morpholinyl 4 morpholinyl tetrahydrofuran 2 yl tetrahydrofuran 3 yl tetrahydrothien 2 yl tetrahydrothien 3 yl 1 piperazinyl 2 piperazinyl and 1 4 diazabicyclooctane.

Aryl means an aromatic monocyclic or multicyclic carbocyclic ring system including fused and spiro rings containing from about six to about 14 carbon atoms. Aryloxy means an aryl O group in which the aryl group is as described herein. Heteroaryl means a five to about a 14 membered aromatic monocyclic or multicyclic hydrocarbon ring system including fused and spiro rings in which one or more of the elements in the ring system is an element other than carbon and is selected from nitrogen oxygen silicon or sulphur and wherein an N atom may be in the form of an N oxide. Arylcarbonyl means an aryl CO group in which the aryl group is as described herein. Heteroarylcarbonyl means a heteroaryl CO group in which the heteroaryl group is as described herein and heterocycloalkylcarbonyl means a heterocycloalkyl CO group in which the heterocycloalkyl group is as described herein. Aryloxycarbonyl means an ROC O group where R is an aryl group as previously described. Heteroaryloxycarbonyl means an ROC O group where R is a heteroaryl group as previously described. Heterocycloalkoxy means a heterocycloalkyl O group in which the heterocycloalkyl group is as previously described. Heterocycloalkoxycarbonyl means an ROC O group where R is a heterocycloalkyl group as previously described.

Aryl groups include for example benzyl phenyl indenyl biphenyl 1 naphthyl 2 naphthyl anthracenyl and phenanthracenyl. Heteroaryl groups include for example 1 pyrrolyl 2 pyrrolyl 3 pyrrolyl furyl thienyl imidazolyl oxazolyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl pyrazolyl pyridyl pyrimidyl purinyl indolyl quinolinyl isoquinolinyl benzoquinolinyl carbazolyl and diazaphenanthrenyl. As used herein halogen means the elements fluorine F chlorine Cl bromine Br and iodine I .

The subject invention also contemplates compositions as described above or a salt thereof in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent.

Salts of the compounds of the invention include those which are prepared with acids or bases depending on the particular substituents present on the subject compounds described herein. Examples of a base addition salts include sodium potassium calcium ammonium or magnesium salt. Examples of acid addition salts include hydrochloric hydrobromic nitric phosphoric carbonic sulphuric and organic acids like acetic propionic benzoic succinic fumaric mandelic oxalic citric tartaric maleic and the like.

Peptides for use with the invention can be readily prepared using standard techniques known in the art including chemical synthesis Merrifield 1963 and genetic engineering. Compounds of the invention can be synthesized or prepared from peptides using standard chemical procedures and materials.

The subject invention also concerns methods for inhibiting the growth or replication of a cell having abnormal growth or replication or whose growth or replication is uncontrolled such as a cancer cell. In one embodiment methods of the invention comprise inhibiting function of Rho kinase or an Rho associated protein kinase by contacting a cell with a compound of the invention wherein the compound is taken in or otherwise provided inside the cell. In one embodiment the cell is a tumor cell cancer cell or a transformed cell. The cell can be a cell from a mammal including human dog cat and horse. The types of cells encompassed within the scope of the invention include but are not limited to cells of breast kidney mouth larynx esophagus stomach testis cervix head neck colon ovary lung bladder skin muscle pancreas prostate bone eye blood cells and brain.

Methods of the invention also comprise inhibiting the function and or growth and replication of a cell that is aberrantly or constitutively expressing Rho Rho GTPase and or Rho kinase. In one embodiment the method comprises contacting a cell with a compound of the invention. In one embodiment the cell is a tumor cell cancer cell or a transformed cell. The cell can be a cell from a mammal including human dog cat and horse. The types of cells encompassed within the scope of the invention include but are not limited to cells of breast kidney mouth larynx esophagus stomach testis cervix head neck colon ovary lung bladder skin muscle pancreas prostate bone eye blood cells and brain.

The subject invention also concerns methods for inducing apoptosis in a target cell. In one embodiment the method comprises contacting a cell with a compound of the invention. In one embodiment the cell is a tumor cell cancer cell or a transformed cell. The cell can be a cell from a mammal including human dog cat and horse. The types of cells encompassed within the scope of the invention include but are not limited to cells of breast kidney mouth larynx esophagus stomach testis cervix head neck colon ovary lung bladder skin muscle pancreas prostate bone eye blood cells and brain.

Compounds of the invention can be delivered to a cell either through direct contact with the cell or via a carrier means. Carrier means for delivering compositions to cells are known in the art and include encapsulating the composition in a liposome moiety and attaching the platinum complexes to a protein or nucleic acid that is targeted for delivery to the target cell. Published U.S. patent application Nos. 20030032594 and 20020120100 disclose amino acid sequences that can be coupled to a composition and that allows the composition to be translocated across biological membranes. Published U.S. patent application No. 20020035243 also describes compositions for transporting biological moieties across cell membranes for intracellular delivery.

The subject invention also concerns methods for treating tumors and oncological disorders in a patient. In one embodiment an effective amount of a compound of the present invention is administered to a patient having an oncological disorder and who is in need of treatment thereof. The patient can be a human or other mammal having an oncological disorder. Means for administering and formulating a compound for administration to a patient are known in the art examples of which are described herein. Oncological disorders that can be treated using the subject invention include cancer and or tumors of the breast kidney mouth larynx esophagus stomach testis cervix head neck colon ovary lung bladder skin muscle pancreas prostate bone eye blood cells and brain. The compounds of the invention can also be used to treat other disorders that are associated with aberrant or constitutive expression of Rho Rho GTPase and or Rho kinase.

For the treatment of tumors and oncological disorders the compounds of this invention can be administered to a patient in need of treatment alone or in combination with other antitumor or anticancer substances and or with radiation therapy and or with surgical treatment to remove a tumor or cancerous tissue. These other substances or radiation treatments may be given at the same or different times as the compounds of this invention. For example the compounds of the present invention can be used in combination with mitotic inhibitors such as taxol or vinblastine alkylating agents such as cisplatin cyclophosamide or ifosfamide antimetabolites such as 5 fluorouracil or hydroxyurea DNA intercalators such as adriamycin or bleomycin topoisomerase inhibitors such as etoposide or camptothecin antiangiogenic agents such as angiostatin antiestrogens such as tamoxifen and or other drugs or antibodies that inhibit cancer cells such as for example GLEEVEC Novartis and HERCEPTIN Genetech respectively.

Therapeutic application of the subject compounds and compositions containing them can be accomplished by any suitable therapeutic method and technique presently or prospectively known to those skilled in the art. The compounds can be administered by any suitable route known in the art including for example topical oral nasal rectal parenteral subcutaneous intramuscular or intravenous routes of administration. Administration of the compounds of the invention can be continuous or at distinct intervals as can be readily determined by a person skilled in the art. The dosage to be administered to a patient can vary depending on several factors including age weight and sex of the patient and the type and severity of the disease. The ordinarily skilled clinician can determine suitable dosages following evaluation of the patient.

Compounds useful in the subject invention can be formulated according to known methods for preparing pharmaceutically useful compositions. Formulations are described in detail in a number of sources which are well known and readily available to those skilled in the art. For example Remington s Pharmaceutical Science by E. W. Martin describes formulations which can be used in connection with the subject invention. In general the compositions of the subject invention will be formulated such that an effective amount of the bioactive compound is combined with a suitable carrier in order to facilitate effective administration of the composition.

The compositions used in the present methods can also be in a variety of forms. These include for example solid semi solid and liquid dosage forms such as tablets pills powders liquid solutions or suspension suppositories injectable and infusible solutions and sprays. The preferred form depends on the intended mode of administration and therapeutic application. The compositions also preferably include conventional pharmaceutically acceptable carriers and diluents which are known to those skilled in the art. Examples of carriers or diluents for use with the subject compounds include but are not limited to water saline oils including mineral oil ethanol dimethyl sulfoxide gelatin cyclodextrans magnesium stearate dextrose cellulose sugars calcium carbonate glycerol alumina starch and equivalent carriers and diluents or mixtures of any of these. Formulations of the compounds of the invention can also comprise suspension agents protectants lubricants buffers preservatives and stabilizers. To provide for the administration of such dosages for the desired therapeutic treatment pharmaceutical compositions of the invention will advantageously comprise between about 0.1 and 45 and especially 1 and 15 by weight of the total of one or more of the compounds based on the weight of the total composition including carrier or diluent.

The compounds and compositions of the subject invention can also be administered utilizing liposome technology slow release capsules implantable pumps and biodegradable containers. These delivery methods can advantageously provide a uniform dosage over an extended period of time.

The subject compounds can also be modified by the addition of chemical groups such as PEG polyethylene glycol . PEGylated peptides typically generate less of an immunogenic response and exhibit extended half lives in vivo in comparison to peptides that are not PEGylated when administered in vivo. Methods for PEGylating proteins and peptides are known in the art see for example U.S. Pat. No. 4 179 337 . The subject compounds can also be modified to improve cell membrane permeability. In one embodiment cell membrane permeability can be improved by attaching a lipophilic moiety such as a steroid to the compound. Other groups known in the art can be linked to compounds of the present invention.

The subject invention also concerns a packaged dosage formulation comprising in one or more containers at least one compound of the subject invention formulated in a pharmaceutically acceptable dosage. The package can contain discrete quantities of the dosage formulation such as tablet capsules lozenge and powders. The quantity of compound in a dosage formulation and that can be administered to a patient can vary from about 1 mg to about 2000 mg more typically about 1 mg to about 500 mg or about 5 mg to about 250 mg or about 10 mg to about 100 mg.

The structures of known Rho kinase inhibitors are shown in . A series of 4 piperazinyl pyridines were synthesized via acylations with various electrophiles. The known inhibitors showed inhibitory activity at low M concentrations but non showed sufficient inhibitory activity at 100 M as shown in .

One aspect invention includes the fast construction of a library of 2 substituted piperazines synthesized from a variety of dipeptides as shown in . Modifications from a previously reported protocol see Breitenlechner. et al. Structure 2003 11 1595 1607 which is incorporated herein by reference provide for the simple and straightforward synthesis of various 2 substituted piperazines with optional selective protection deprotection .

More accurately tailored scaffolds piperanizylmethyl pyridine moieties are shown in . The compounds shown in have less rigidity but fit into the deep ATP binding pocket and enable effective interaction with the backbone NH of M156 see also Liu B. et. al. Syn. Comm. 2004 34 4111 4118 which is incorporated herein by reference wherein R1 CH3 . As it can be seen the synthesis provides 3 4 moderate to high yielding linear steps from commercially available amino acids or their methyl esters. These findings demonstrate the important interaction between N from pyridine and NH from M156 by comparison with piperazinylmethyl benzene.

Referring again to the pyridine ring of Y 27632 occupies the same space as the adenine six membered ring in other kinase structures. It can also be seen the active site of ROCK and PKA are quite similar. Specifically the consistent H bond between backbone NH from M156 and N from pyridine or isoquinoline wing M156 V123 from PKA .

Following are examples which illustrate procedures for practicing the invention. The disclosed compounds of one embodiment mimic the structures of known inhibitors and are diversified by the variation of hetero aromatic rings and a variety of piperazines. The disclosed designs provide significant benefit over the prior art. For example piperazines are easily synthesized from dipeptides through the combination of suitable amino acids. Moreover other bis functional reagents such as piperidine carboxylic acid can be easily incorporated. Also modifications through the remaining secondary amine afford specificity thereby allowing the discrimination from various kinases i.e. similar ATP binding sites .

The invention also provides for rapid screening using commercially available bis functional reagents as key linkers or scaffolds. Such embodiments utilize selective and sequential coupling with heteraromatic and tail groups. Illustrative but not limiting commercially available bis functional reagents include piperazine homopiperazine and isonipectotae and chlorosulfonyl isocyanate . Combinations of amide urea carbamate and sulfonyl urea allow for a variety of scaffolds for use with the current invention.

In a first embodiment other embodiments are discussed below a compound of the invention has the general structure shown in formula I.

As previously described R1 is a heteroaryl such as pyridyl quinolinyl or isoquinolinyl. R2 and R3 are individually alkyl alkoxy cycloalkyl cycloalkoxy aryl aryloxy alkylcarbonyl alkoxycarbonyl cycloalkylcarbonyl heteroalkyl heterocycloalkyl heterocycloalkylcarbonyl heteroaryl arylcarbonyl heteroarylcarbonyl aryloxycarbonyl heteroaryloxycarbonyl heterocycloalkoxy or heterocycloalkoxycarbonyl any of which can be optionally substituted with one or more of the following any halogen CN COOH O OH NO2 NH2 N alkyl alkyl alkoxy cycloalkyl cycloalkoxy aryl aryloxy alkylcarbonyl alkoxycarbonyl cycloalkylcarbonyl heteroalkyl heterocycloalkyl heterocycloalkylcarbonyl heteroaryl arylcarbonyl heteroarylcarbonyl aryloxycarbonyl heteroaryloxycarbonyl heterocycloalkoxy or heterocycloalkoxycarbonyl including salts thereof.

In a preferred embodiment compounds of the invention have an R1 group selected from pyridyl and quinolinyl moieties. For example in one embodiment R1 is a pyridine. In another embodiment R1 is a quinoline. In an exemplified embodiment R1 is isoquinoline.

In another embodiment R2 is selected from the group consisting of Bn CH2OBn Me i Pr Bu OBn and Ph or a salt thereof. In yet another embodiment R3 is selected from the group consisting of CH3 Boc H COCH2NH2 and COCH2NHBoc or other acceptable protecting group or a salt thereof.

The synthesis of compounds of this embodiment is shown in . As shown pyridine quinolines or isoquinolines were coupled with various piperazines through nucleophilic aromatic substitution or Hartwig Buchwald aryl amination. Piperazinyl isoquinolines exhibited notable inhibitory activity against Rho kinase activity i.e IC50 3.5 M .

Examples of compositions of the invention are shown in Table 1 and have been designated numerically with an IP X X number. Compositions of the invention such as those exemplified herein and designated as IP IV 41 and IP IV 49 are potent disrupters of active Rho kinase and effectively disrupt Rho kinase activity. demonstrates the effectiveness of IP IV 67 against ROCK1 in four assays.

In another embodiment the Rho protein associated kinase inhibitor has the structure shown in formula.

In this embodiment Ris selected from the group consisting of pyridil naphtyl and benzyl. Rand Rare individually selected from the group consisting of alkyl alkoxy cycloalkyl cycloalkoxy alkylcarbonyl alkoxycarbonyl cycloalkylcarbonyl heteroalkyl heterocycloalkyl heterocycloalkylcarbonyl heterocycloalkoxy or heterocycloalkoxycarbonyl any of which can be optionally substituted with one or more of the following any halogen CN COOH O OH NO NH N alkyl alkyl alkoxy cycloalkyl cycloalkoxy aryl aryloxy alkylcarbonyl alkoxycarbonyl cycloalkylcarbonyl heteroalkyl heterocycloalkyl heterocycloalkylcarbonyl heteroaryl arylcarbonyl heteroarylcarbonyl aryloxycarbonyl heteroaryloxycarbonyl heterocycloalkoxy and heterocycloalkoxycarbonyl or a salt thereof. Preferred embodiments are described below.

In this embodiment various diketopiperazines and piperazines were synthesized from alpha chloro dipeptides see . Piperazines showed superior inhibitory activity compared to diketopiperazines see Table 2 below . N Naphtylmethyl 3 benzyl piperazine compound 6e Table 2 showed particular effectiveness.

In another embodiment the Rho protein associated kinase inhibitor has the general structure shown in formula III.

In the preferred embodiment R1 is a heteroaryl such as isoquinoline or quinoline. R2 R3 and R4 are individually selected from the group consisting of alkyl alkoxy cycloalkyl cycloalkoxy aryl aryloxy alkylcarbonyl alkoxycarbonyl cycloalkylcarbonyl heteroalkyl heterocycloalkyl heterocycloalkylcarbonyl heteroaryl arylcarbonyl heteroarylcarbonyl aryloxycarbonyl heteroaryloxycarbonyl heterocycloalkoxy or heterocycloalkoxycarbonyl any of which can be optionally substituted with one or more of the following any halogen CN COOH O OH NO2 NH2 N alkyl alkyl alkoxy cycloalkyl cycloalkoxy aryl aryloxy alkylcarbonyl alkoxycarbonyl cycloalkylcarbonyl heteroalkyl heterocycloalkyl heterocycloalkylcarbonyl heteroaryl arylcarbonyl heteroarylcarbonyl aryloxycarbonyl heteroaryloxycarbonyl heterocycloalkoxy and heterocycloalkoxycarbonyl or a salt thereof.

Also in a preferred embodiment as shown below R2 is selected from the group consisting of methyl benzyl methylbenzyl i butane i propane and COOH R3 is selected from the group consisting of O H2 halo and CH3 2 and R4 is CH3 Boc H COCH2NH2 and COCH2NHBoc or a salt thereof.

The compounds according to this embodiment are shown in Table 3 below. Synthesis of the relevant compounds is shown in . Naphthyl analogs were selected for investigation and the naphthylene ring was substituted with isoquinoline. Suprisingly a significant increase in effectiveness resulted from the use of isoquinoline rings IC50 16 20 M . It was also suprising that a marked difference existed between the amide IP IV 15 Table 3 and tert amine moieties IP IV 29 see also . Quinoline derivatives also showed significant inhibitory activity.

Examples of compositions of the invention are shown in Table 3 and have been designated numerically with IP X X numbers.

In still another embodiment the Rho protein associated kinase inhibitor has the general structure shown in formula IV.

R1 is selected from the group consisting of pyridine piperazine and diazepine. R1 of the preferred embodiment for the pyridyl moieties is selected from the group consisting of the structures shown in formula V and formula VI.

In a general embodiment R2 is selected from the group consisting of alkoxy cycloalkoxy aryloxy and aryloxycarbonyl R3 is selected from the group consisting of NH and O and R4 is selected from the group consisting of alkyl alkoxy cycloalkyl cycloalkoxy aryl aryloxy alkylcarbonyl alkoxycarbonyl cycloalkylcarbonyl heteroalkyl heterocycloalkyl heterocycloalkylcarbonyl heteroaryl arylcarbonyl heteroarylcarbonyl aryloxycarbonyl heteroaryloxycarbonyl heterocycloalkoxy or heterocycloalkoxycarbonyl any of which can be optionally substituted with one or more of the following any halogen CN COOH O OH NO2 NH2 N alkyl alkyl alkoxy cycloalkyl cycloalkoxy aryl aryloxy alkylcarbonyl alkoxycarbonyl cycloalkylcarbonyl heteroalkyl heterocycloalkyl heterocycloalkylcarbonyl heteroaryl arylcarbonyl heteroarylcarbonyl aryloxycarbonyl heteroaryloxycarbonyl heterocycloalkoxy and heterocycloalkoxycarbonyl or a salt thereof.

In a preferred embodiment however R2 is selected from COOH and COOCH2CH3 R3 is selected from NH and O and R4 is selected from Bn and H.

The synthesis of compounds of this embodiment is shown in . Compounds of this embodiment provide easy access in a one step reaction from Isonictotinic acid Curtis rearrangement providing a straightforward reaction with various bis functional amines or alcohol. While illustrative compounds are shown other isocyanates including isoquinoline are contemplated. While compounds of this embodiment demonstrate Rho kinase activity compounds 12b and 16b demonstrated inhibitory activity at low micromolar concentrations i.e. IC50 14 M and 7.5 M respectively .

Examples of compositions of the invention are shown in Table 4 and have been designated numerically. Compositions of the invention such as those exemplified herein and designated as 12b and 16b are potent disrupters of active Rho kinase and effectively disrupt Rho kinase activity. While these compounds are generally more effective at lower micromolar concentrations the effectiveness of these compounds may be influenced by the presence and the type as well as the positioning of functional groups on the aromatic ring.

The synthesis of compounds of this embodiment is shown in . In this embodiment the isoquinolinyl areas and carbamates were synthesized stepwise with a trichloroacetyl chloride.

Examples of compositions of the invention are shown in Table 5 and have been designated numerically with an IP X X number. Compositions of the invention such as those exemplified herein and designated as IP IV135 and IP IV 133 are potent disrupters of active Rho kinase and effectively disrupt Rho kinase activity. While these compounds are generally more effective at lower micromolar concentrations the effectiveness of these compounds may be influenced by the presence and the type as well as the positioning of functional groups on the aromatic ring.

The synthesis of compounds of this embodiment is shown in . In this embodiment simple isonicotinoyl was coupled with isonipecotate to form piperidinyl pyridines. In the example shown in the bis functional isonipecotic acid was used instead of bis functional piperidines. The process provides straightforward reactions with moderate to high yields in each step. Results of inhibition are shown in parenthesis no significant change was noticed by the modification of amide to amine. Improved inhibition is possible however by the coupling of isonipecotate with other aromatic rings including isoquinolines as well as other amino acid tails.

It will be seen that the advantages set forth above and those made apparent from the foregoing description are efficiently attained and since certain changes may be made in the above construction without departing from the scope of the invention it is intended that all matters contained in the foregoing description or shown in the accompanying drawings shall be interpreted as illustrative and not in a limiting sense.

It is also to be understood that the following claims are intended to cover all of the generic and specific features of the invention herein described and all statements of the scope of the invention which as a matter of language might be said to fall therebetween. Now that the invention has been described 

