---

title: Wind sensor
abstract: A wind sensor includes first and second elements in an orthogonal axis arrangement and a calibration data array comprising first calibration data associated with the first element and second calibration array data associated with second element. An anemometric processor determines a wind speed (S) and direction (W) for an airflow received by the first and second elements using a first electrical parameter associated with the first element and the first calibration array data and a second electrical parameter associated with the second element and the second calibration array data. A wind sensing probe can have a pair of wind sensing elements, wherein each element has a core formed of a low specific heat, low density, high temperature plastic polymer, with two metal leads extending from the ends of core. A wind sensing element can include a fine Nickel alloy coil wound around an aforementioned core.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07971478&OS=07971478&RS=07971478
owner: 
number: 07971478
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20091002
---
The present inventive concepts relate to the field of systems and methods for sensing wind speed and direction and more particularly to the field of wind sensors.

Wind sensors have a wide range of practical applications. For example wind sensors are common at weather stations airports and other locations for sensing wind speed and direction. At an airport as an example this information is particularly useful in guiding aircraft with respect to take offs and landings.

An anemometer is one device that is used for measuring wind speed. There are many types of anemometers such as cup windmill and hot wire anemometers.

In a hot wire anemometer a very thin element having a cross section on the order of several micrometers is heated up to a temperature above the ambient. Air flowing past the element has a cooling effect on the element. Since the electrical resistance of most metals is dependent upon the temperature of the metal tungsten is a popular choice for elements a mathematical relationship can be obtained between the resistance of the element and the flow velocity. This relationship is well known.

Several ways of implementing a hot wire anemometer exist and hot wire anemometers can be further classified as CCA Constant Current Anemometer CVA Constant Voltage Anemometer and CTA Constant Temperature Anemometer . The voltage output from these anemometers is thus the result of a circuit within the device trying to maintain constant the specific variable current voltage or temperature .

The advantages of thermal anemometry include high accuracy an easily automated collection procedure and a high frequency response allowing measurement of turbulent flows. The use of electrically self heated resistors hot wires and hot films as thermal anemometer transducers is well known in the prior art. These elements when maintained at constant temperature rise above the ambient can indicate with precision the direction and magnitude of airflow. This is accomplished electrically by using a servo loop which senses the error between the voltage divider involving the sensing element and the voltage divider involving a thermistor with a similar temperature coefficient of resistance.

By compensating for ambient temperature changes the elements are maintained at constant temperature rise above the ambient. Any airflow change across the sensing element requires a change in current through the sensor element to keep it at a constant temperature rise. Platinum wire or depositions of Platinum have been commonly used because of its stability at high temperatures Platinum has a high temperature coefficient. Since a high temperature coefficient of resistance is required the material supporting the Platinum needs to have a good high temperature coefficient of resistance as well. Combining the cost of Platinum the support material and the sophisticated processes in manufacturing these elements the costs for producing using and maintaining thermal anemometers has been prohibitively high. Combining these considerations with the data processing requirements of such anemometers has made use in the commercial industrial and military marketplaces largely impractical.

In accordance with aspects of the present invention the measurement of wind speed and direction by thermal anemometry is accomplished with high accuracy and at a relatively low cost. For instance low cost materials can be used with a precision manufacturing process so that wind sensing elements can be built at a significantly lower cost. In accordance with another aspect of the invention a wind sensor utilizes a calibration array of data in conjunction with linear interpolation to achieve fast and accurate determinations of wind speed and direction. With a combination of low cost microcomputer technology a pair of low cost wind sensing elements an appropriate thermistor and the improved calibration array and processing a low cost wind sensor system can be achieved that quickly converges on an accurate wind speed and direction.

In accordance with one aspect of the present disclosure provided is a wind sensor. The wind sensor includes a first element and a second orthogonal element. A storage media has a calibration array comprising first calibration data associated with the first element and second calibration array data associated with second element. And an anemometric processor determines a wind speed S and direction W for an airflow received by the first and second elements using a change in a first electrical parameter associated with the first element and the first calibration array data and a change in a second electrical parameter associated with the second element and the second calibration array data.

The first element can define an X axis in an X plane and the first calibration data can be X plane data. And the second element can define a Y axis in a Y plane and the second calibration data can be Y plane data.

The X plane data can include a plurality of first voltage calibration points V S Q in the X plane and the Y plane data can include a plurality of second voltage calibration points V S Q in the Y plane where Qis a set of incremental angles with respect to the X plane and Qis a set of incremental angles with respect to the Y plane. Likewise S is a set of incremental wind speeds.

The first electrical parameter associated with the first element can be a voltage V. And the second electrical parameter associated with the second element can be a voltage V.

A plus or minus sign associated with the incoming airflow for the first element can be a signand a plus or minus sign associated with the incoming airflow for the second element can be a sign. And the anemometric processor can be configured to determine a quadrant of the airflow in an X Y coordinate system from the signand the signand to find wind speed S and direction W using X plane data and Y plane data in the quadrant.

The anemometric processor can be configured to determine the wind speed S and direction W for the airflow by performing linear interpolation to find the common S and W values for measured value V S Q W in the X plane using the X plane data in the quadrant and measured value V S Q W in the Y plane using the Y plane data in the quadrant.

In the above case Q W and Q W when the anemometric processor determines a difference between Qand Qto be within an error threshold.

The anemometric processor can iteratively perform linear interpolation using four points in the X plane and four points in the Y plane for one or more of the iteratively performed linear interpolations.

The anemometric processor can be configured to determine the wind direction W from Qand Q when Qand Qare within the error threshold.

The anemometric processor can be configured to determine the wind speed S from a speed associated with Qand a speed associated with Q when Qand Qare within the error threshold.

In accordance with another aspect of the invention provided is a method of determining wind speed S and direction W for an airflow received by first and second elements of a cross wire wind sensor. The method includes providing a calibration data array in a storage media accessible by an anemometric processor the calibration array comprising first calibration data associated with the first element and second calibration array data associated with second element. The method also includes calculating the wind speed S and direction W for the airflow using a first electrical parameter associated with the first element and the first calibration array data and a second electrical parameter associated with the second element and the second calibration array data.

The first element can define an X axis in an X plane and the first calibration data can be X plane data. The second element can define a Y axis in a Y plane and the second calibration data can be Y plane data. The X plane data can include a plurality of first voltage calibration points V S Q in the X plane and the Y plane data can include a plurality of second voltage calibration points V S Q in the Y plane where Qis a set of incremental angles with respect to the X plane and Qis a set of incremental angles with respect to the Y plane. S is a set of incremental wind speeds.

The first electrical parameter can be associated with the first element can be a voltage Vand the change in the second electrical parameter associated with the second element is a voltage V. The method can further include from a direction of the airflow determining a signassociated with first element and a signassociated with the second element and determining a quadrant of the airflow in an X Y coordinate system from the signand the signand finding the wind speed S and direction W using X plane data and Y plane data in the quadrant.

The method can further include determining the wind speed S and direction W for the airflow by performing linear interpolation to find V S Q W in the X plane using the X plane data in the quadrant and measured value V S Q W in the Y plane using the Y plane data in the quadrant.

The method can further include Q W and Q W when a difference between Qand Qis determined to be within an error threshold.

The method can further include using four points in the X plane and four points in the Y plane for one or more of the iteratively performed linear interpolations.

The method can further include determining the wind direction W from Qand Q when Qand Qare within the error threshold.

The method can further include determining the wind speed S from a speed associated with Qand a speed associated with Q when Qand Qare within the error threshold.

In accordance with another aspect of the invention provided is a method of generating a calibration array for a cross wire wind sensor. The method includes providing a storage media coupled to an anemometric processor and a probe having first and second elements in a crossed arrangement directing at the probe an airflow having a known speed S and angle W recording a voltage difference across the first element as Vand a voltage difference across the second element as V recording an airflow direction associated with the first element as signand an airflow direction associated with the second element as sign storing V V sign and signin association with the known speed S and angle W and changing at least one of the known speed S and angle W and repeating the above steps.

In accordance with another aspect of the invention provided is a wind sensing probe including a pair of wind sensing elements. Each wind sensing element Includes a core comprising an ultra performance plastic polymer two similar metal leads extending from different ends of the core and a Nickel coil wound around the core with at least about 100 windings per inch.

The leads can be coupled to the core with a high temperature epoxy and the coil can be coupled to the leads with a moderate temperature solder.

The wind sensing probe can further include a protective non corrosive coating covering the coil the epoxy weld and the solder.

The wind sensing probe is composed of two wound coils that are connected in series with one coil arranged to be parallel to the other. This dual coil parallel arrangement allows the positive or negative sign of the incoming airflow to be determined.

Hereinafter aspects of the present invention will be described by explaining illustrative embodiments in accordance therewith with reference to the attached drawings. While describing these embodiments detailed descriptions of well known items functions or configurations are typically omitted for conciseness.

It will be understood that although the terms first second etc. are being used herein to describe various elements these elements should not be limited by these terms. These terms are used to distinguish one element from another but not to imply a required sequence of elements. For example a first element can be termed a second element and similarly a second element can be termed a first element without departing from the scope of the present invention. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

It will be understood that the terms X plane and Y plane are being used to describe the various airstream paths that are affecting the X axis element and Y axis element.

It will be understood that when an element is referred to as being on or connected or coupled to another element it can be directly on or connected or coupled to the other element or intervening elements can be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly on or directly connected or directly coupled to another element there are no intervening elements present. Other words used to describe the relationship between elements should be interpreted in a like fashion e.g. between versus directly between adjacent versus directly adjacent etc. .

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises comprising includes and or including when used herein specify the presence of stated features steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

Spatially relative terms such as beneath below lower above upper and the like may be used to describe an element and or feature s relationship to another element s and or feature s as for example illustrated in the figures. It will be understood that the spatially relative terms are intended to encompass different orientations of the device in use and or operation in addition to the orientation depicted in the figures. For example if the device in the figures is turned over elements described as below and or beneath other elements or features would then be oriented above the other elements or features. The device may be otherwise oriented e.g. rotated 90 degrees or at other orientations and the spatially relative descriptors used herein interpreted accordingly.

In this embodiment the probe assembly includes two crossed elements i.e. a first element and a second element that are slightly spaced apart. The first element can be considered to define an X axis and the second element orthogonal to the first element can be considered to define a Y axis. A Z axis can be defined that extends from the crossing point of the X axis and Y axis and perpendicularly to each of the X and Y axes. As will be described below wind speed S and direction W can be determined using the X Y coordinate system. And the wind sensor can be rotated around the central Z axis to collect calibration data in accordance with the present invention.

Each of elements is supported at its ends by vertical posts mounted to a base . First element is part of a first loop that includes a first temperature compensating element . And second element is part of a second loop that includes a second temperature compensating element .

The probe assembly includes an anemometric circuit that is coupled to the elements see e.g. . The housing encases the anemometric circuit and can be made from plastic PVC pipe or some other non corrosive material. Elements and temperature compensating elements extend above housing and are encased by protective cover which enables the flow of wind over the foregoing. Cover can be made of the same materials as housing but could alternatively be made of different materials. These materials are known in the art.

Each of elements includes two elongated coils in a side by side parallel arrangement. Each coil is wrapped around a ceramic core material with leads connecting to posts . This physical arrangement is generally known in the art. Platinum thick film Platinum and tungsten are considered acceptable coil materials in the art.

In a low specific heat and low density plastic polymer such as polyetheretherketone PEEK is used as a material for a core . In this embodiment the diameter D of core is about 0.014 inches and the length L is about 1.10 inches. More generally L D 40. Two metal leads extend from the ends of core which are formed of fine gauge wire. A coil is precision wound around core . The coil is formed of Nickel fine gauge wire e.g. with at least about 100 windings per inch. In the present embodiment use of Nickel wire which has a high temperature coefficient of resistance TCR for coil achieves results as good as or better than expensive Platinum coils and the like.

The coil to lead wire connections are soldered and the core to lead wire connections are made using a high temperature epoxy. A coating is made over the coil and core . The coating must be made from a high temperature coating that does not corrode metal such as a Rust Oleum paint or the like.

The current in each of first and second loops and is controlled by its respective temperature compensating element or in an effort to maintain the temperature rise above ambient of each of elements at a known value sometimes referred to herein as the preset temperature rise. From the change in current of each control loop caused by a fluid flow a change in power can be determined for each loop. These electrical parameters of the first loop and the second loop can be used to determine the wind speed S and direction W of the fluid flow e.g. an air flow or air stream.

As an example in the present embodiment the preset temperature rise can be about 100 C. In this embodiment the temperature compensating elements and include fixed resistors with specific TCR that cause automatic adjustment of current in each of the respective first and second loops to maintain the preset temperature rise in each of the control loops in the presence of an air flow. As a result like elements and temperature compensating elements and are also exposed to the air flow. Temperature compensating elements and are known in the art so not discussed in further detail herein.

When air flows over the probe elements and temperature compensating elements a voltage in each loop necessary to keep the elements at the preset temperature rise can be determined. For example if wind flows over element which lies in the X axis a current that flows through element can be determined. Knowing the resistance of element allows determination of the voltage associated with the X axis required to keep element at the preset temperature. This voltage is referred to as V. Similarly a voltage across element is determined for the Y axis referred to as V.

For that same airflow a wind direction can be determined using loops and . A combination of the two coils present in each element enables sign information of an air flow over the elements to be determined. The sign information for each element is relative to the axis on which the element is oriented. Since each element includes two coplanar coils arranged in parallel when air hits at right angles to the pair of coils one coil shields the other coil in the pair. The current in the shielding coil will increase significantly to maintain the coil at the constant temperature rise while the current in the shielded coil should experience very little if any change.

In the present embodiment for each of loops and a sign e.g. or is determined that is related to wind direction. Assuming element lies on the X axis and element lies on the Y axis and the elements cross at an origin the sign values place the wind direction in one of four quadrants defined by the X axis and Y axis as the X Y coordinate system. These are referred to as signand sign. For instance the 1quadrant could be defined as the sign of X being and the sign of Y being the 2quadrant could be defined as the sign of X being and the sign of Y being the 3quadrant could be defined as the sign of X being and the sign of Y being and the 4quadrant could be defined as the sign of X being and the sign of Y being . As a result the sign can be represented as a two bit number one bit representing or for the X axis and the other bit representing or for the Y axis.

The probe assembly passes Vand signfrom the first loop and Vand signfrom the second loop to the anemometric circuit . The anemometric circuit includes an anemometric processor that processes Vand signfrom the first loop and Vand signfrom the second loop . In a calibration mode processor uses these electrical parameters of the first and second loops to build a calibration array or table which is stored in database . In an operational mode processor uses these electrical parameters and the calibration array to determine the speed S and direction W of the air flow or wind the values of which can be output though an output port or device . Output port or device can also be used for reading out data from database and setting calibration parameters.

The calibration array is generated by directing an airstream over the probe assembly of the wind sensor in a controlled manner such that air flows over the orthogonal elements and temperature compensating elements . Data in the calibration array is stored relative to one of two planes. Data relating to the first element lies in the X plane and data relating to the second element lies in the Y plane.

As shown in in this embodiment wind is directed over the probe assembly at a known angle and speed where the first element of the first loop can be referred to as an X element and the second element of the second loop can be referred to as Y element. Vand signare determined for the X element and Vand signare determined for the Y element as described above with respect to . Anemometric processor stores Vand signand Vand signfor the known angle and speed of the wind directed over probe assembly .

The calibration array is built by iteratively changing the wind speed and angle and recording Vand signand Vand signfor each iteration. For example the wind sensor can be rotated about the central Z axis in 15 degree increments from 0 to 360 degrees with airstreams flowing from 2.5 meters second m s to 55 m s in 5 m s increments. Each wind speed and angle combination represents one iteration used in forming the calibration array stored in database .

As described above with respect to the values of Vand Vand signand signare determined for the wind from the probe assembly . Vand Vrepresent two nonlinear vector components defining the speed and direction of the wind. An equation representing the relationship of wind speed S and direction or angle W to voltage is generally known in the art and represented in Equations 7 and 8 below.

As shown in Vand Vand signand signfrom the received wind are passed to anemometric processor as sensed from the first and second elements respectively. Anemometric processor determines the wind speed S and direction W using values in the calibration array . The wind speed S and direction W can then be output via output port or device shown in .

As noted above the calibration array includes Vand Vinformation at different speeds and angles for each of four quadrants. The particular quadrant of data used to determine the wind speed and direction is indicated by the signand signvalues for the received wind. For instance if sign 1 and sign 1 identifies the first quadrant 0 90 degrees in the calibration array and the wind flowing over elements produces sign 1 and sign 1 then the wind would be determined to have an angle or direction in the range of 0 90 degrees and linear interpolation would be performed using the Vand Vinformation for the first quadrant.

Linear interpolation for Vis performed using calibration array data in the X plane and linear interpolation for Vis performed using calibration array data in the Y plane. Using the X plane and Y plane data from the calibration array the anemometric processor performs linear interpolation by iteratively solving two equations with two unknowns to converge on the answer within the quadrant indicated by the signand signof the received wind. Using the linear interpolation the anemometric processor determines a common wind speed S and direction W for the measured Vand V.

In step linear interpolation is performed in the X plane to find the wind direction angle Qfor a speed S. And in step linear interpolation is performed in the Y plane to find the wind direction angle Qfor the speed S. In step the value for wind direction determined from the X plane Q is compared to the value for wind direction determined from the Y plane Q. When the values of Qand Qare equal or close to equal the wind speed S and direction W will be substantially that of the received airflow W Qand Qand S Sand S.

In step the difference between Qand Qis compared to a predetermined error threshold E. For example the error threshold Ecould be a percentage e.g. 3 percent. If the difference exceeds the error threshold E the method returns to steps and for another iteration using four new points in each plane that are converging. If the difference does not exceed the error threshold the wind speed S and direction W are indicated or output in step . Wind direction W can be determined from Qand Q. As examples W can be determined as either Qor Q or an average of the two. And S can be the speed where Qand Qare about equal within E.

In linear interpolation is explained with respect to the X plane. A similar linear interpolation would also be performed in the Y plane. In each plane four points of calibration array data are used at a time to iteratively converge on a wind direction Qor Q for a voltage Vor V and a speed S . The voltages Vand Vwill typically be in the range of 0 10 volts in this embodiment. When the linear interpolation is complete S and Q should be substantially the same in each plane where W Q.

The graph in is a plot of Vversus speed for the X plane calibration array data. The data is a representation of a well known general relationship between V S and W or Q which is represented in Equations 7 and 8 below. As an example within a given quadrant an initial guess could be that W 45 degrees and S 25 m s. The four points are chosen from the calibration array data accordingly which are V S W V S W V S W and V S W .

In accordance with the present embodiment to calculate V S W calculate V S Q from V S Q V S Q from V S Q and V S W from V S W .

The linear interpolation process provides the relationships for the two planes having two functions with two independent variables speed S and angle W or direction. By using four points in each of the X and Y planes the resulting value for speed S and direction W in terms of these eight points can be calculated. Using the above Equations 1 6 the complete solution for each plane can be given as follows where Qand Q when about equal can be more generally represented as W 

Solving these equations for W in terms of Vand Vprovides a means for guessing different speeds and observing different resulting angles i.e. to solve for W. Ultimately through iteration performed by the anemometric processor the final values of wind speed S and direction W are determined.

Similar relationships exist for B B in the Y plane. Therefore through these relationships the anemometric processor iteratively converges on wind speed S and direction W for the received airflow.

In accordance with aspects of the invention a new approach to building and processing data related to a dual axis dual element hot element anemometer is provided. Also in accordance with the invention provided is a low cost fabrication process coupled with state of the art microcomputer technology and a unique processing approach that result in a precision low cost wind sensor.

While the foregoing has described what are considered to be the best mode and or other preferred embodiments it is understood that various modifications can be made therein and that the invention or inventions may be implemented in various forms and embodiments and that they may be applied in numerous applications only some of which have been described herein. It is intended by the following claims to claim that which is literally described and all equivalents thereto including all modifications and variations that fall within the scope of each claim.

