---

title: Triazine, pyrimidine and pyridine analogs and their use as therapeutic agents and diagnostic probes
abstract: The invention relates to novel therapeutic agents and diagnostic probes. The invention also relates to phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) and mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitor triazine-, pyrimidine- and pyridine-based compounds^ Formula (I), their stereoisomers, geometric isomers, tautomers, solvates, metabolites, N-oxide derivatives, pharmaceutically acceptable salts, and prodrugs thereof compositions of the new compounds; either alone or in combination with at least one additional therapeutic agent, with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier; and uses of the new compounds, either alone or in combination with at least one additional therapeutic agent, for treating disorders mediated by lipid kinases. •Methods of using compounds of Formula (I) for in vitro, in situ, and in vivo diagnosis, prevention or treatment of such disorders in mammalian cells, or associated pathological conditions, are disclosed. (Formula I)
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08921361&OS=08921361&RS=08921361
owner: University of Basel
number: 08921361
owner_city: Basel
owner_country: CH
publication_date: 20091110
---
This is the U.S. national stage of International application PCT IB2009 007404 filed Nov. 10 2009 designating the United States and claims priority to GB 0821219.3 filed Nov. 10 2008.

The invention relates to new therapeutic agents and diagnostic probes including pharmaceutically acceptable salts prodrugs and metabolites thereof which are useful for modulating protein or enzyme activity for modulating cellular activities such as signal transduction proliferation differentiation programmed cell death migration and cytokine secretion. More specifically the invention provides compounds which inhibit regulate detect and or modulate kinase activity in particular phosphoinositide 3 kinase PI3K mammalian target of rapamycin mTOR DNA PK and ATM kinase inhibitor compounds their pharmaceutically acceptable salts and prodrugs thereof compositions of the new compounds either alone or in combination with at least one additional therapeutic agent with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and uses of the new compounds either alone or in combination with at least one additional therapeutic agent in the prophylaxis or treatment of a number of diseases in particular those characterized by the abnormal activity of serine threonine kinases receptor tyrosine kinases and lipid kinases. The invention also relates to methods of using the compounds for in vitro in situ and in vivo diagnosis assay development or treatment of mammalian cells or associated pathological conditions.

Protein kinases participate in the signaling events which control the activation growth differentiation survival and migration of cells in response to extracellular mediators or stimuli including growth factors cytokines or chemokines. In general these kinases are classified in two groups those that preferentially phosphorylate tyrosine residues and those that preferentially phosphorylate serine and or threonine residues. The tyrosine kinases include membrane spanning growth factor receptors for example the epidermal growth factor receptor EGFR and cytosolic non receptor kinases including Src family kinases the Syk family kinases and the Tec family kinases.

Inappropriately high protein kinase activity is involved in many diseases including cancer metabolic diseases immunological diseases and inflammatory disorders. This can be caused either directly or indirectly by the failure of control mechanisms due to mutation overexpression or inappropriate activation of the enzyme.

Protein tyrosine kinases both receptor tyrosine kinases and non receptor kinases are essential for the activation and proliferation of cells of the immune system. Among the earliest detectable events upon the immunoreceptor activation in mast cells T cells and B cells is the stimulation of non receptor tyrosine kinases.

Phosphoinositide 3 kinases PI3Ks were early on identified as lipid kinases associated with viral oncogens Whitman et al. 315 239 242 1985 Sugimoto et al. 81 2117 2121 1984 Macara et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 81 2728 2732 1984 and for the last 20 years the connection between cancer and PI3K has been further substantiated Cully et al. 6 184 192 2006 Wymann et al. 17 141 149 2005 Vivanco et al. 2 489 501 2002 . PI3Ks have since been recognized to modulate a wide range of cellular activities and to be central to the growth and metabolic control. Genetically modified mice targeting the PI3K pathway and the elucidation of human hereditary disease like Cowden s syndrome tuberous sclerosis ataxia telangiectasia X linked myotubular myopathy and Charcot Marie Tooth neuropathy have provided further insight in the cellular and systemic role of phosphoinositide signaling. Deregulation of phosphoinositide levels and in particular the product of class I PI3Ks PtdIns 3 4 5 P3 is involved in the pathogenesis of cancer chronic inflammation allergy metabolic disease diabetes and cardiovascular problems.

PI3Ks are a family of enzymes which phosphorylate the 3 OH position of the inositol ring of phosphoinositides. They have been divided into three classes on the basis of structural features and in vitro lipid substrate specificity Marone et al 1784 159 185 2008 . Class I PI3Ks form heterodimers which consist of one of the four closely related 110 kDa catalytic subunits and an associated regulatory subunit belonging to two distinct families. In vitro they are capable to convert PtdIns to PtdIns 3 P PtdIns 4 P to PtdIns 3 4 P2 and PtdIns 4 5 P2 to PtdIns 3 4 5 P3 but the in vivo substrate is PtdIns 4 5 P2 Cantley et al. Science 296 1655 1657 2002 . Class I PI3Ks are activated by a large variety of cell surface receptors comprising growth factor receptors as well as G protein coupled receptors.

Class II PI3Ks are capable to phosphorylate PtdIns and PtdIns 4 P in vitro but their relevant in vivo substrates are still under investigation. This class of large 170 200 kDa enzymes has three members all characterized by a C terminal C2 homology domain. No adaptor molecules for class II PI3Ks have been identified so far. Class III PI3Ks are solely able to phosphorylate PtdIns and thus generate only PtdIns 3 P. The single member of this class is Vps34 of which the S. cerevisiae Vps34p vacuolar protein sorting mutant 34 protein is the prototype and has been shown to play an essential role in trafficking of newly synthesized proteins from the Golgi to the yeast vacuole an organelle equivalent to lysosomes in mammals Schu et al. Science 260 88 91 1993 .

Phosphoinositide 4 kinases PI4Ks phosphorylate the 4 OH position of the inositol ring of PtdIns and thereby generate PtdIns 4 P. This lipid can then be further phosphorylated by PtdIns 4 P 5 kinases to generate PtdIns 4 5 P2 which is the main source for phospholipase C and PI3K signaling at the plasma membrane. Four PI4Ks isoforms are known PI4KII and and PI4KIII and . The PI4KIIIs are most closely related to PI3Ks.

The class of PI3K related proteins referred to as class IV PI3Ks consists of high molecular weight enzymes with a catalytic core similar to PI3Ks and PI4Ks and include the target of rapamycin mTOR also known as FRAP DNA dependent protein kinase DNA PKcs the ataxia telangiectasia mutated gene product ATM ataxia telangiectasiarelated ATR SMG 1 and transformation transcription domain associated protein TRRAP . The first five members are active protein serine threonine kinases that are involved in cell growth control and genome transcriptome surveillance Marone et al. 1784 159 185 2008 . DNA PKcs ATM ATR and SMG 1 are involved in DNA damage responses. The only active kinase not involved in DNA damage is mTOR which is regulated by growth factors and nutrient availability and coordinates protein synthesis cell growth and proliferation. Target of rapamycin mTOR complexes 1 and integrate growth factor signaling via PI3K PKB and the Ras MAPK cascade energy status LKB1 and AMPK and nutrient detection. TOR is positively regulated by PKB Akt which phosphorylates the negative regulator TSC2 in the tuberous sclerosis complex TSC resulting in activation of the GTPase Rheb and mTOR Marone et al. 1784 159 185 2008 . In parallel mTOR stimulates translation of ribosomal proteins and therefore ribosome biogenesis via the activation of p70 Wullschleger et al. 124 471 2006 . Rapamycin and its derivatives RAD001 and CCI 779 bind to FKBP12 and the complex blocks mTOR complex 1 mTORC1 activity very selectively. Various clinical trials were initiated using Rapamycin and derivatives mostly in patients with tumors displaying elevated PI3K signaling and hyperactive mTOR. Promising results were obtained in mantle cell lymphoma endometrial cancer and renal cell carcinoma Guertin et al. 12 9 2007 . Rapamycin and its derivatives possess anti angiogenic activity because they counteract VEGF action Guba et al. 8 128 2002 . This opens avenues for combinatorial treatments with conventional chemotherapy Beuvink et al. 120 747 2005 .

The PI3K pathway is a key signaling transduction cascade controlling the regulation of cell growth proliferation survival as well as cell migration. PI3Ks are activated by a wide variety of different stimuli including growth factors inflammatory mediators hormones neurotransmitters and immunoglobulins and antigens Wymann et al. 24 366 376 2003 . The class IA PI3K isoforms PI3K and are all bound to one of the p85 p55 p50 regulatory subunits which all harbor two SH2 domains that bind with high affinity to phosphorylated Tyr X X Met motifs. These motifs are present in activated growth factor receptors their substrates and numerous adaptor proteins. As described above activation of the PI3K PKB signaling cascade has a positive effect on cell growth survival and proliferation. Constitutive up regulation of PI3K signaling can have a deleterious effect on cells leading to uncontrolled proliferation enhanced migration and adhesion independent growth. These events favor not only the formation of malignant tumors but also the development of inflammatory and autoimmune disease.

The PI3 kinase Akt PTEN pathway is an attractive target for cancer drug development since such agents would be expected to inhibit proliferation reverse the repression of apoptosis and surmount resistance to cytotoxic agente in cancer cells. PI3 kinase inhibitors have been reported see notably Marone et al. 1784 159 185 2008 Yaguchi et al. 2006 Jour. Of the Nat. Cancer Inst. 98 8 545 556 U.S. Pat. No. 7 173 029 U.S. Pat. No. 7 037 915 U.S. Pat. No. 6 608 056 U.S. Pat. No. 6 608 053 U.S. Pat. No. 6 838 457 U.S. Pat. No. 6 770 641 U.S. Pat. No. 6 653 320 U.S. Pat. No. 6 403 588 U.S. Pat. No. 6 703 414 WO9715658 WO2006046031 WO2006046035 WO2006046040 WO2007042806 WO2007042810 WO2004017950 US2004092561 WO2004007491 WO2004006916 WO2003037886 US2003149074 WO2003035618 WO2003034997 WO2007084786 WO2007095588 WO2008098058 US2003158212 EP1417976 US2004053946 JP2001247477 JP08175990 JP08176070 .

1 3 5 triazine and pyrimidine derivatives as pharmaceuticals have been made with respect to antitumor anti inflammatory analgesic and antispasmodic activities. Especially hexamethylmelamine or altretamin HMM or N N N N N N hexamethyl 1 3 5 triazine 2 4 6 triamine is well known which has been developed as analogue of antitumor agent triethylenemelamine TEM HMM acts as a prodrug of hydroxymethylpentamethylmelamine HMPMM metabolically active type of HMM Johnson et al. Cancer 42 2157 2161 1978 . HMM has been marketed in Europe under the indications for the treatment of ovarian and small cell lung cancers.

Certain triazine compounds are known to have PI3 kinase inhibitor activity and inhibit the growth of cancer cells WO02088112 EP1389617 HETEROCYCLIC COMPOUNDS AND ANTITUMOR AGENT CONTAINING THE SAME AS ACTIVE INGREDIENT Kawashima et al. Filing date 26 Apr. 2002 WO05095389 EP1741714 HETEROCYCLIC COMPOUND AND ANTI MALIGNANT TUMOR AGENT CONTAINING THE SAME AS ACTIVE INGREDIENT Kawashima et al. Filing date 30 Mar. 2005 WO06095906 EP1864665 IMMUNOSUPPRESSIVE AGENT AND ANTI TUMOR AGENT COMPRISING HETEROCYCLIC COMPOUND AS ACTIVE INGREDIENTS Haruta et al. Filing date 11 Mar. 2005 WO09905138 EP1020462 HETEROCYCLIC COMPOUNDS AND ANTITUMOR AGENT CONTAINING THE SAME AS ACTIVE INGREDIENT Kawashima et al. Filing date 24 Jul. 1998 . The triazine compound ZSTK474 developed in research laboratories of Zenyaku Kogyo is the first orally administered triazine compound highly active against PI3Ks that displayed potent antitumor activity against human cancer xenografts in mice without evidence of critical toxicity Yaguchi et al. Journal of the National Cancer Institute 98 545 556 2006 . ZSTK474 is an ATP competitive inhibitor of class I phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase isoforms Kong et al. Cancer Sci 98 1638 1642 2007 .

Certain pyrimidine compounds are known to have p110 alpha binding PI3 kinase inhibitor activity and inhibit the growth of cancer cells IP of AstraZeneca WO07066103 WO07080382 WO08023159 WO08023180 WO08032027 WO08032033 WO08032036 WO08032041 WO08032072 WO08032077 WO08032086 WO08032089 WO08032091 IP of Genentech Piramed Roche US2007009880 WO07127183 WO08073785 WO07042810 WO07122410 WO07127175 WO07129161 WO08070740 WO2006046031 WO2006046040 WO2007042806 WO2007122410 IP of Novartis WO07084786 WO08098058 .

In order to expand antitumor spectrum of and increase antitumor activities of such compounds active against PI3Ks and or mTOR the inventors carried out intensive studies on triazine pyrimidine and pyridine based derivatives. They thus prepared new heterocyclic compounds represented by the formula I and formulas Ia to Ii which exhibit strong biological activity against lipid kinases.

In comparison with the PI3K inhibitors disclosed by Zenyaku Kogyo WO02088112 EP1389617 WO2005095389 EP 1741714 WO2006095906 EP1864665 WO09905138 EP1020462 AstraZeneca WO07066103 WO07080382 WO08023159 WO08023180 WO08032027 WO08032033 WO08032036 WO08032041 WO08032072 WO08032077 WO08032086 WO08032089 WO08032091 Piramed Genentech US2007009880 WO07127183 WO08073785 WO07042810 WO07122410 WO07127175 WO08070740 WO2006046031 WO2006046040 WO2007122410 Yamanouchi Piramed WO01083456 and Novartis WO07084786 WO08098058 the inhibitors of the invention differ in the insertion of a N atom in the basic heterocyclic ring that makes better biological activity to the target enzyme and or in the insertion of a novel molecular fragment making the whole molecule more active or more selective to the appropriate enzyme.

The invention relates generally to new triazine pyrimidine and pyridine based derivatives and their use as therapeutic agents and diagnostic probes.

The invention also relates to phosphoinositide 3 kinase PI3K and mammalian target of rapamycin mTOR inhibitor compounds with anti cancer activity pharmaceutical formulations thereof which are potentially useful in treatment of disease conditions and or disorders modulated by PI3K and mTOR kinases. The compounds may inhibit tumor growth in mammals and may be useful for treating human cancer patients.

The invention also relates to methods of using the compounds for in vitro in situ and in vivo diagnosis or treatment of mammalian cells organisms or associated pathological conditions.

More specifically one aspect of the invention provides triazine compounds of formulas Ia to Id pyrimidine compounds of formulas If to Ii and pyridine compounds of formulas Ie and If to Ii 

and stereoisomers geometric isomers tautomers solvates metabolites N oxide derivatives and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof.

Another aspect of the invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a triazine or a pyrimidine or a pyridine compound of formula I or one of formulas Ia to Ii and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The pharmaceutical composition may further comprise one or more additional therapeutic agents selected from anti proliferative agents anti inflammatory agents immunomodulatory agents neurotropic factors agents for treating blood disorders agents for treating diabetes and agents for treating immunodeficiency disorders.

Another aspect of the invention provides methods of inhibiting PI3 kinase activity comprising contacting a PI3 kinase with an effective inhibitory amount of a compound of formula I or one of formulas Ia to Ii or a stereoisomer geometric isomer tautomer solvate metabolite N oxide derivative or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof.

Another aspect of the invention provides methods of preventing or treating a disease or disorder modulated by PI3 kinases comprising administering to a mammal in need of such treatment an effective amount of a compound of formula I or one of formulas Ia to Ii or a stereoisomer geometric isomer tautomer solvate metabolite N oxide derivative or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof. Examples of such diseases conditions and disorders include but are not limited to hyperproliferative disorders e.g. cancer including melanoma and other cancers of the skin neurodegeneration cardiac hypertrophy pain migraine neurotraumatic diseases stroke diabetes hepatomegaly cardiovascular disease Alzheimer s disease cystic fibrosis autoimmune diseases atherosclerosis restenosis psoriasis allergis disorders inflammation neurological disorders hormone related diseases conditions associated with organ transplantation immunodeficiency disorders destructive bone disorders hyperproliferative disorders infectious diseases conditions associated with cell death thrombin induced platelet aggregation chronic myelogenous leukaemia CML liver disease pathologic immune conditions involving T cell activation and CNS disorders.

Another aspect of the invention provides methods of preventing or treating a hyperproliferative disorder comprising administering to a mammal in need of such treatment an effective amount of a compound of formula I or one of formulas Ia to Ii or a stereoisomer geometric isomer tautomer solvate metabolite N oxide derivative or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof alone or in combination with one or more additional compounds having anti hyperproliferative properties.

In a further aspect the present invention provides a method of using a compound of this invention to treat a disease or condition modulated by PI3 kinase and or mTOR in a mammal.

An additional aspect of the invention is the use of a compound of this invention in the preparation of a medicament for the treatment or prevention of a disease or condition modulated by PI3 kinase in a mammal.

Another aspect of the invention includes kits comprising a compound of formula I or one of formulas Ia to Ii or a stereoisomer geometric isomer tautomer solvate metabolite N oxide derivative or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof a container and optionally a package insert or label indicating a treatment.

Another aspect of the invention includes methods of preparing methods of separating and methods of purifying compounds of formula I or one of formulas Ia to Ii .

Another aspect of the invention includes novel intermediates useful for preparing formula I or one of formulas Ia to Ii .

Additional advantages and novel features of this invention shall be set forth in part in the description that follows and in part will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon examination of the following specification or may be learned by the practice of the invention. The advantages of the invention may be realized and attained by means of the instrumentalities combinations compositions and methods particularly pointed out in the appended claims.

Reference will now be made in detail to certain embodiments of the invention examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying structures and formulas. While the invention will be described in conjunction with the enumerated embodiments it will be understood that they are not intended to limit the invention to those embodiments. On the contrary the invention is intended to cover all alternatives modifications and equivalents which may be included within the scope of the present invention as defined by the claims. One skilled in the art will recognize many methods and materials similar to equivalent to those described herein which could be used in the practice of the present invention. The present invention is in no way limited to the methods and materials herein described.

In the event that one or more of the literature patents and similar materials referred to differs from or contradicts the present application as regards including but not limited to defined terms term usage described techniques or the like only the teaching of the present application will be taken into consideration.

The term alkyl as used herein refers to a saturated linear or branched chain monovalent hydrocarbon radical of one to twelve carbon atoms C1 C12 wherein the alkyl radical may be optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described below. In another embodiment an alkyl radical is one to eight carbon atoms C1 C8 or one to six carbon atoms C1 C6 . Examples of alkyl groups include but are not limited to methyl Me CH ethyl Et CHCH 1 propyl n Pr n propyl CHCHCH 2 propyl i Pr i propyl CH CH 1 butyl n Bu n butyl CHCHCHCH 2 methyl 1 propyl i Bu i butyl CHCH CH 2 butyl s Bu s butyl CH CH CHCH 2 methyl 2 propyl t Bu t butyl C CH 1 pentyl n pentyl CHCHCHCHCH 2 pentyl CH CH CHCHCH 3 pentyl CH CHCH 2 methyl 2 butyl C CH CHCH 3 methyl 2 butyl CH CH CH CH 3 methyl 1 butyl CHCHCH CH 2 methyl 1 butyl CHCH CH CHCH 1 hexyl CHCHCHCHCH 2 hexyl CH CH CHCHCHCH 3 hexyl CH CHCH CHCHCH 2 methyl 2 pentyl C CH CHCHCH 3 methyl 2 pentyl CH CH CH CH CHCH 4 methyl 2 pentyl CH CH CHCH CH 3 methyl 2 pentyl CH CH CHCH 2 methyl 3 pentyl CH CHCH CH CH 2 3 dimethyl 2 butyl C CH CH CH 3 3 dimethyl 2 butyl CH CH C CH 1 heptyl 1 octyl and the like.

The term alkenyl refers to linear or branched chain monovalent hydrocarbon radical of two to eight carbon atoms C2 C8 with at least one site of unsaturation i.e. a carbon carbon sp2 double bond wherein the alkenyl radical may be optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein and includes radicals having cis and trans orientations or alternatively E and Z orientations. Examples include but are not limited to ethylenyl or vinyl CH CH allyl CHCH CH and the like.

The term alkynyl refers to a linear or branched monovalent hydrocarbon radical of two to eight carbon atoms C2 C8 with at least one site of unsaturation i.e. a carbon carbon sp triple bond wherein the alkynyl radical may be optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein. Examples include but are not limited to ethynyl C CH propynyl propargyl CHC CH and the like.

The terms carbocycle carbocyclyl carbocyclic ring and cycloalkyl refer to a monovalent non aromatic saturated or partially unsaturated ring having 3 to 12 carbon atoms C3 C12 as a monocyclic ring or 7 to 12 carbon atoms as a bicyclic ring. Bicyclic carbocyclated having 7 to 12 atoms can be arranged for example as a bicyclo 4 5 5 5 5 6 or 6 6 system and bicyclic carbocycles having 9 or 10 ring atoms can be arranged as a bicycle 5 6 or 6 6 system or as bridged systems such as bicyclo 2.2.1 heptane bicycle 2.2.2 octane and bicycle 3.2.2 nonane. Examples of monocyclic carbocycles include but are not limited to cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl 1 cyclopent 1 enyl 1 cyclopent 2 enyl 1 cyclopent 3 enyl cyclohexyl 1 cyclohex 1 enyl 1 cyclohex 2 enyl 1 cyclohex 3 enyl cyclohexadienyl cycloheptyl cyclooctyl cyclononyl cyclodecyl cycloundecyl cyclododecyl and the like.

 Aryl means a monovalent aromatic hydrocarbon radical of 6 20 carbon atoms C6 C20 derived by the removal of one hydrogen atom from a single carbon atom of a parent aromatic ring system. Some aryl groups are represented in the exemplary structures as Ar . Aryl includes bicyclic radicals comprising an aromatic ring fused to a saturated partially unsaturated ring or aromatic carbocyclic ring. Typical aryl groups include but are not limited to radicals derived from benzene phenyl substituted benzenes naphthalene anthracene biphenyl indenyl indanyl 1 2 dihydronapthalene 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthyl and the like. Aryl groups are optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein.

The terms heterocycle heterocyclyl and heterocyclic ring are used interchangeably herein and refer to a saturated or a partially unsaturated i.e. having one or more double and or triple bonds within the ring carbocyclic radical of 3 to 20 ring atoms in which at least one ring atom is a heteroatom selected from nitrogen oxygen phosphorus and sulphur the remaining ring atoms being C where one or more ring atoms is optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described below. A heterocycle may be a monocycle having 3 to 7 ring members 2 to 6 carbon atoms and 1 to 4 heteroatoms selected from N O P and S or a bicycle having 7 to 10 ring members 4 to 9 carbon atoms and 1 to 6 heteroatoms selected from N O P and S for example a bicycle 4 5 5 5 5 6 or 6 6 system. Heterocycles are described in Paquette Leo A. Principles of Modern Heterocyclic Chemistry W. A. Benjamin New York 1968 particularly Chapters 1 3 4 6 7 and 9 The Chemistry of Heterocyclic Compounds A series of Monographs John Wiley Sons New York 1950 to present in particular Volumes 13 14 16 19 and 28 and J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1960 82 5566. Heterocyclyl also includes radicals where heterocycle radicals are fused with a saturated partially unsaturated ring or aromatic carbocyclic or heterocyclic ring. Examples of heterocyclic rings include but are not limited to pyrrolidinyl tetrahydrofuranyl dihydrofuranyl tetrahydrothienyl tetrahydropyranyl dihydropyranyl tetrahydrothiopyranyl piperidino morpholino thiomorpholino thioxanyl piperazinyl homopiperazinyl azetidinyl oxetanyl thietanyl homopiperidinyl oxepanyl thiepanyl oxazepinyl diazepinyl thiazepinyl 2 pyrrolinyl 3 pyrrolinyl indolinyl 2H pyranyl 4H pyranyl dioxanyl 1 3 dioxolanyl pyrazolinyl dithianyl dithiolanyl dihydropyranyl dihydrothienyl dihydrofuranyl pyrazolidinylimidazolinyl imidazolidinyl 3 azabicyclo 3.1.0 hexanyl 3 azabicyclo 4.1.0 heptanyl azabicyclo 2.2.2 hexanyl 3H indolyl quinolizinyl and N pyridyl ureas. Spiro moieties are also included within the scope of this definition. Examples of a heterocyclic group wherein 2 ring carbon atoms are substituted with oxo O moieties are pyrimidinonyl and 1 1 dioxo thiomorpholinyl. The heterocycle groups herein are optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein.

The term heteroaryl refers to a monovalent aromatic radical of 5 6 or 7 membered rings and includes fused ring systems at least one of which is aromatic of 5 20 atoms containing one or more heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulphur. Examples of heteroaryl groups are pyridinyl including for example 2 hydroxypyridinyl imidazolyl imidazopyridinyl pyrimidinyl including for example 4 hydroxypyrimidinyl pyrazolyl triazolyl pyrazinyl tetrazolyl furyl thienyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl oxadiazolyl oxazolyl isothiazolyl pyrrolyl quinolinyl isoquinolinyl tetrahydroisoquinolinyl indolyl benzimidazolyl benzofuranyl cinnolinyl indazolyl indolizinyl phthalazinyl pyridazinyl triazinyl isoindolyl pteridinyl purinyl oxadiazolyl triazolyl thiadiazolyl furazanyl benzofurazanyl benzothiophenyl benzothiazolyl benzooxazolyl quinazolinyl quinoxalinyl naphthyridinyl and furopyridinyl. Heteroaryl groups are optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein.

The heterocycle or heteroaryl groups may be carbon carbon linked or nitrogen nitrogen linked bonded where such is possible. By way of example and not limitation carbon bonded heterocycles or heteroaryls are bonded at position 2 3 4 5 or 6 of a pyridine position 3 4 5 or 6 of a pyridazine position 2 4 5 or 6 of a pyrimidine position 2 3 5 or 6 of a pyrazine position 2 3 4 or 5 of a furan tetrahydrofuran thiofuran thiophene pyrrole or tetrahydropyrrole position 2 4 or 5 of an oxazole imidazole or thiazole position 3 4 or 5 of an isoxazole pyrazole or isothiazole position 2 or 3 of an aziridine position 2 3 or 4 of an azetidine position 2 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 of a quinoline or position 1 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 of an isoquinoline.

By way of example and not limitation nitrogen bonded heterocycles or heteroaryls are bonded at position 1 of an aziridine azetidine pyrrole pyrrolidine 2 pyrroline 3 pyrroline imidazole imidazolidine 2 imidazoline 3 imidazoline pyrazole pyrazoline 2 pyrazoline 3 pyrazoline piperidine piperazine indole indoline 1H indazole position 2 of a isoindole or isoindoline position 4 of a morpholine and position 9 of a carbazole or carboline.

The term monocyclic heteroaryl refers to a five or six membered unsubstituted or substituted monocyclic heteroaryl radical which contains 1 2 3 or 4 ring heteroatoms independently selected from N O and S. The monocyclic heteroaryl may be attached to the C 2 position of the pyrimidine ring according to formula Ia Ii at any carbon carbon linked or nitrogen nitrogen linked atom of the monocyclic heteroaryl R3 group. Monocyclic heteroaryl radicals include but are not limited to 2 pyridyl 3 pyridyl 4 pyridyl 3 isoxazolyl 4 isoxazolyl 5 isoxazolyl 2 imidazolyl 4 imidazolyl 3 pyrazolyl 4 pyrazolyl 2 pyrrolyl 3 pyrrolyl 2 thiazolyl 4 thiazolyl 5 thiazolyl 3 pyridazinyl 4 pyridazinyl 5 pyridazinyl 2 pyrimidinyl 5 pyrimidinyl 6 pyrimidinyl 2 pyrazinyl 2 oxazolyl 4 oxazolyl 5 oxazolyl 2 furanyl 3 furanyl 2 thienyl 3 thienyl 3 triazolyl 1 triazolyl 5 tetrazolyl 1 tetrazolyl and 2 tetrazolyl. Monocyclic heteroaryl are optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein.

The term treat and treatment refer to both therapeutic treatment and prophylactic or preventative measures wherein the object is to prevent or slow down lessen an undesired pathological change or disorder such as the development or spread of cancer. For purpose of this invention beneficial or desired clinical results include but are not limited to alleviation of symptoms diminishment of extent of disease stabilized i.e. not worsening state of disease delay or slowing of disease progression amelioration or palliation of the disease state and remission whether partial or total whether detectable or undetectable. Treatment can also mean prolonging survival as compared to expected survival if not receiving treatment. Those in need of treatment include those already with the condition or disorder as well as those prone to have the condition or disorder or those in which the condition or disorder is to be prevented.

The phrase therapeutically effective amount means an amount of a compound of the present invention that i treats or prevents the particular disease condition or disorder ii attenuates ameliorates or eliminates one or more symptoms of the particular disease condition or disorder or iii prevents or delays the onset of one or more symptoms of the particular disease condition or disorder described herein. In the case of cancer the therapeutically effective amount of the drug may be reduce the number of cancer cells reduce the tumor size inhibit i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop cancer cell infiltration into peripheral organs inhibit i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop tumor metastasis inhibit to some extent tumor growth and or relieve to some extent one or more of the symptoms associated with the cancer. To the extent the drug may prevent growth and or kill existing cancer cells it may be cytostatic and or cytotoxic. For cancer therapy efficacy can be measured for example by assessing the time to disease progression TTP and or determining the response rate RR .

The terms cancer and cancerous refer to or describe the physiological condition in mammals that is typically characterized by unregulated cell growth. A tumor comprises one or more cancerous cells. Examples of cancer include but are not limited to carcinoma lymphoma blastoma sarcoma and leukaemia or lymphoid malignancies. More particular examples of such cancers include squamous cell cancer e.g. epithelial squamous cell cancer lung cancer including small cell lung cancer non small cell lung cancer NSCLC adenocarcinoma of the lung and squamous carcinoma of the lung cancer of the peritoneum hepatocellular cancer gastric or stomach cancer including gastrointestinal cancer pancreatic cancer glioblastoma cervical cancer ovarian cancer liver cancer bladder cancer hepatome breast cancer colon cancer rectal cancer colorectal cancer endometrial or uterine carcinoma salivary gland carcinoma kidney or renal cancer prostate cancer vulval cancer thyroid cancer hepatic carcinoma anal carcinoma penile carcinoma as well as head and neck cancer.

A chemotherapeutic agent is a chemical compound useful in the treatment of cancer. Examples of known chemotherapeutic agents include trastuzumab pertuzumab erlotinib TARCEVA Genetech OSI Pharm. bortezomib VELCADE Millennium Pharm. fulvestrant FASLODEX AstraZeneca sunitib SUTENT Pfizer Sugen letrozole FEMARA Novartis imatinib mesylate GLEEVEC Novartis finasunate VATALANIB Novartis oxaliplatin ELOXATIN Sanofi 5 FU 5 fluorouracil leucovorin Rapamycin Sirolimus RAPAMUNE Wyeth Lapatinib TYKERB GSK572016 Glaxo Smith Kline Lonafarnib SCH 66336 sorafenib NEXAVAR Bayer Labs and gefitinib IRESSA AstraZeneca AG1478 alkylating agents such as thiotepa and CYTOXAN cyclosphosphamide alkyl sulfonates such as busulfan improsulfan and piposulfan aziridines such as benzodopa carboquone meturedopa and uredopa ethylenimines and methylamelamines including altretamine triethylenemelamine triethylenephosphoramide triethylenethiophosphoramide and trimethylomelamine acetogenins a camptothecin including the synthetic analog topotecan bryostatin callystatin CC 1065 including its adozelesin carzelesin and bizelesin synthetic analogs cryptophycins dolastatin duocarmycin including the synthetic analogs KW 2189 and CB1 TM1 eleutherobin pancratistatin a sarcodictyin spongistatin nitrogen mustards such as chlorambucil chlornaphazine chlorophosphamide estramustine ifosfamide mechlorethamine mechlorethamine oxide hydrochloride melphalan novembichin phenesterine prednimustine trofosfamide uracil mustard nitrosureas such as carmustine chlorozotocin fotemustine lomustine nimustine and ranimnustine antibiotics such as the enediyne antibiotics e.g. calicheamicin especially calicheamicin gamma1l and calicheamicin omegal1 dynemicin including dynemicin A biphosphonates such as clodronate an esperamicin as well as neocarzinostatin chromophore and related chromoprotein enediyne antibiotic chromophores aclacinomysins actinomycin authramycin azaserine bleomycins cactinomycin carabicin carminomycin carzinophillin chromomycinis dactinomycin daunorubicin detorubicin 6 diazol 5 oxo L norleucine ADRIAMYCIN doxorubicin morpholino doxorubicin cyanomorpholino doxorubicin 2 pyrrolino doxorubicin and deoxydoxorubicin epirubicin esorubicin idarubicin marcellomycin mitomycins such as mitomycin C mycophenolic acid nogalamycin olivomycins peplomycin porfiromycin puromycin quelamycin rodorubicin streptonigrin streptozocin tubercidin ubenimex zinostatin zorubicin anti metabolites such as methotrexate and 5 fluorouracil 5 FU folic acid analogs such as denopterin methotrexate pteropterin trimetrexate purine analogs such as fludarabine 6 mercaptopurine thiamiprine thioguanine pyrimidine analogs such as ancitabine azacitidine 6 azauridine carmofur cytarabine dideoxyuridine doxifluridine enocitabine floxuridine androgens such as calusterone dromostanolone propionate epitiostanol mepitiostane testolactone anti adrenals such as aminoglutethimide mitotane trilostane folic acid replenisher such as frolinic acid aceglatone aldophosphamide glycoside aminolevulinic acid eniluracil amsacrine bestrabucil bisantrene edatraxate defofamine demecolcine diaziquone elfornithine elliptinium acetate an epothilone etoglucid gallium nitrate hydroxyurea lentinan lonidainine maytansinoids such as maytansine and ansamitocins mitoguazone mitoxantrone mopidanmol nitraerine pentostatin phenamet pirarubicin losoxantrone podophyllinic acid 2 ethylhydrazide procarbazine PSK polysaccharide complex razoxane rhizoxin sizofiran spirogermanium tenuazonic acid triaziquone trichothecenes urethane vindesine dacarbazine mannomustine mitobronitol mitolactol pipobroman gacytosine arabinoside taxoids e.g. TAXOL paclitaxel Bristol Myers Squibb ABRAXANE Cremophor free albumin engineered nanoparticle formulations of paclitaxel and TAXOTERE docetaxel doxetaxel Sanofi Aventis chloranmbucil GEMZAR gemcitabine 6 thioguanine mercaptopurine methotrexate platinum analogs such as cisplatin and carboplatin vinblastine etoposide ifosfamide mitoxantrone vincristine NAVELBINE vinorelbine novantrone teniposide edatrexate daunomycin aminopterin capecitabine XELODA ibandronate CP 11 topoisomerase inhibitor RFS 2000 difluoromethylornithine DMFO retinoids such as retinoic acid and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids and derivatives of any of the above.

Also included in the definition of chemotherapeutic agent are i anti hormonal agents that act to regulate or inhibit hormone action on tumors such as anti estrogens and selective receptor modulators SERMs including for example tamoxifen including NOLVADEX tamoxifen citrate raloxifene droloxifene and FARESTON toremifine citrate ii aromatase inhibitors that inhibit the enzyme aromatase which regulates estrogen production in the adrenal glands such as for example 4 5 imidazoles MEGASE megestrol acetate AROMASIN exemestane Pfizer formestanie fadrazole RIVISOR vorozole FEMARA letrozole Novartis and ARIMIDEX anastrozole AstraZeneca iii anti androgens such as flutamide nilutamide iv protein kinase inhibitors v lipid kinase inhibitors vi antisense oligonucleotides particularly those which inhibit expression of genes in signaling pathways implicated in aberrant cell proliferation such as for example PKC alpha Rafl and H Ras vii ribozymes such as VEGF expression inhibitors e.g. ANGIOZYME and HER2 expression inhibitors viii vaccines such as gene therapy vaccines for example ALLOVECTIN LEUVECTIN and VAXID PROLEUKIN rIL 2 a topoisomerase 1 inhibitor such as LURTOTECANE ABARELIX rmRH ix anti angiogenic agents such as bevacizumab AVASTIN Genentech and x pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids and derivatives of any of the above.

The term prodrug as used in this application refers to a precursor or derivative form of a compound of the invention that may be less cytotoxic to cells compared to the parent compound or drug and is capable of being enzymatically or hydrolytically activated or converted into the more active parent form. The prodrugs of this invention include but are not limited to phosphate containing prodrugs thiophosphate containing prodrugs sulfate containing prodrugs peptide containing prodrugs D amino acid modified prodrugs glycosylated prodrugs lactam containing prodrugs optionally substituted phenoxyacetamide containing prodrugs optionally substituted phenylacetamide containing prodrugs 5 fluorocytosine and other 5 fluorouridine prodrugs which can be converted into the more active cytotoxic free drug. Examples of cytotoxic drugs that can be derivatized into a prodrug form for use in this invention include but are not limited to compounds of the invention and chemotherapeutic agents such as described above.

A metabolite is a product produced through metabolism in the body of a specified compound or salt thereof. Metabolites of a compound may be identified using routine techniques known in the art and their activities determined using tests such as those described herein. Such products may result for example from the oxidation reduction hydrolysis amidation deamidation esterification deesterification enzymatic cleavage and the like of the administered compound. Accordingly the invention includes metabolites of compounds of the invention including compounds produced by a process comprising contacting a compound of this invention with a mammal for a period of time sufficient to yield a metabolic product thereof.

A liposome is a small vesicle composed of various types of lipids phospholipids and or surfactant which is useful for delivery of a drug such as the PI3K and mTOR kinase inhibitors disclosed herein and optionally a chemotherapeutic agent to a mammal. The components of the liposome are commonly arranged in a bilayer formation similar to the lipid arrangement of biological membranes.

The term package insert is used to refer to instructions customarily included in commercial packages of therapeutic products that contain information about the indications usage dosage administration contraindications and or warnings concerning the use of such therapeutic products.

The term chiral refers to molecules which have the property of non superimposability of the mirror image partner while the term achiral refers to molecules which are superimposable on their mirror image partner.

The term stereoisomers refers to compounds which have identical chemical constitution but differ with regard to the arrangement of the atoms or groups in space.

 Diastereomer refers to a stereoisomer with two or more centers of chirality and whose molecules are not mirror images of one another. Diastereomers have different physical properties e.g. melting points boiling points spectral properties and reactivities. Mixtures of diasteremers may separate under high resolution analytical procedures such as electrophoresis and chromatography.

 Enantiomers refer to two stereoisomers of a compound which are non superimposable mirror images of one another.

Stereochemical definitions and conventions used herein generally follow S. P. Parker Ed. 1984 McGraw Hill Book Company New York and Eliel E. and Wilen S. Stereochemistry of Organic Compounds John Wiley Sons Inc. New York 1994. The compounds of the invention may contain asymmetric or chiral centers and therefore exist in different stereoisomeric forms. It is intended that all stereoisomeric forms of the compounds of the invention including but not limited to diastereomers enantiomers and atropisomers as well as mixtures thereof such as racemic mixtures form part of the present invention. Many organic compounds exist in optically active forms i.e. they have the ability to rotate the plane of plane polarized light. In describing an optically active compound the prefixes D and L or R and S are used to denote the absolute configuration of the molecule about its chiral center s . The prefixes d and l or and are employed to designate the sign of rotation of plane polarized light by the compound with or 1 meaning that the compound is levorotatory. A compound prefixed with or d is dextrorotatory. For a given chemical structure these stereoisomers are identical except that they are mirror images of one another. A specific stereoisomer may also be referred to as an enantiomer and a mixture of such isomers is often called an enantiomeric mixture. A 50 50 mixture of enantiomers is referred to as a racemic mixture or a racemate.

The term tautomer or tautomeric form refers to structural isomers of different energies which are interconvertible via a low energy barrier. For example proton tautomers include interconversions via migration of a proton such as keto enol and imin enamine isomerizations.

The phrase pharmaceutically acceptable salt as used herein refers to pharmaceutically acceptable organic or inorganic salts of a compound of the invention. Exemplary salts include but are not limited to sulfate citrate acetate oxalate chloride bromide iodide nitrate bisulfate phosphate acid phosphate isonicotinate lactate salicylate acid citrate tartrate oleate tannate pantothenate bitartrate ascorbate succinate maleate gentisinate fumarate gluconate glucuronate saccharate formate benzoate glutamate methanesulfonate mesylate ethanesulfonate benzenesulfonate p toluenesulfonate and pamoate salts. A pharmaceutically acceptable salt may involve the inclusion of another molecule such as an acetate ion a succinate ion or other counter ion. The counter ion may be any organic or inorganic moiety that stabilizes the charge on the parent compound. Furthermore a pharmaceutically acceptable salt may have more than one charged atom in its structure. Instances where multiple charged atoms are part of the pharmaceutically acceptable salt can have multiple counter ions. Hence a pharmaceutically acceptable salt can have one or more charged atoms and or one or more counter ion.

If the compound of the invention is a base the desired pharmaceutically acceptable salt may be prepared by any suitable method available in the art for example treatment of the free base with an inorganic acid such as hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid sulfuric acid nitric acid methanesulfonic acid phosphoric acid and the like or with an organic acid such as acetic acid trifluoroacetic acid maleic acid succinic acid mandelic acid fumaric acid malonic acid pyruvic acid oxalic acid glycolic acid salicylic acid a pyranosidyl acid such as glucuronic acid or galacturonic acid an alpha hydroxyl acid such as citric acid or tartaric acid an amino acid such as aspartic acid or glutamic acid an aromatic acid such as benzoic acid or cinnamic acid a sulfonic acid such as p toluenesulfonic acid or ethanesulfonic acid or the like.

If the compound of the invention is an acid the desired pharmaceutically acceptable salt may be prepared by any suitable method for example treatment of the free acid with an inorganic or organic base such as an amine an alkali metal hydroxide or alkaline earth metal hydroxide or the like. Illustrative examples of suitable salts include but are not limited to organic salts derived from amino acids such as glycine and arginine ammonia primary secondary and tertiary amines and cyclic amines such as piperidine morpholine and piperazine and inorganic salts derived from sodium calcium potassium magnesium manganese iron copper zinc aluminium and lithium.

The phrase pharmaceutically acceptable indicates that the substance or composition must be compatible chemically and or toxicologically with the other ingredients comprising a formulation and or the mammal being treated therewith.

A solvate refers to an association or complex of one or more solvent molecules and a compound of the invention. Examples of solvents that form solvates include but are not limited to water isopropanol ethanol methanol DMSO ethyl acetate acetic acid and ethanolamine. The term hydrate refers to the complex where the solvent molecule is water.

The term protecting group refers to a substituent that is commonly employed to block or protect a particular functionality while reacting other functional groups on the compound. For example an amino protecting group is a substituent attached to an amino group that blocks or protects the amino functionality in the compound. Suitable amino protecting groups include acetyl trifluoroacetyl t butoxycarbonyl BOC benzyloxycarbonyl and 9 fluorenylmethylenoxycarbonyl Fmoc . For a general description of protecting groups and their use see T. W. Greene Protective Groups I Organic Synthesis John Wiley Sons New York 1991.

The terms compound of this invention and compounds of the present invention and compounds of formula I or one of formulas Ia to Ii include compounds of formula I or one of formulas Ia to Ii and stereoisomers geometric isomers tautomers solvates metabolites N oxide derivatives and pharmaceutically acceptable salts and prodrugs thereof.

The term mammal includes but is not limited to humans mice rats guinea pigs monkeys dogs cats horses cows pigs and sheep.

The present invention provides triazine pyrimidine and pyridine compounds and pharmaceutical formulations thereof which are useful as therapeutic agents and novel diagnostic probes. Moreover these compounds are potentially useful in the treatment of diseases conditions and or disorders modulated by protein kinases and lipid kinases.

and stereoisomers geometric isomers tautomers solvates metabolites N oxide derivatives and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof wherein 

 1 hydrogen 2 cyano 3 halogen 4 methyl 5 trifluoromethyl 6 sulfonamido 7 sulfon 8 linker moiety hydrophobic linkers hydrophilic linkers pegylated linkers photo cleaveable linkers redox reaction cleaveable linkers 9 linker moiety with covalently bonded TAG molecules a TAG could be a fluorophor biotin different polymer beads and different reactive groups 10 F Cl Br I C C C alkyl NRR CRR RR C RR NRC Y R CRR NRS O R CH OR R CRR OR CRR S O R CRR S O NRR C Y R C Y OR C Y NRR C Y NROR C O NRS O R C O NR CRR NRR NO NHR NRC Y R NRC Y OR NRC Y NRR NRS O R NRSONRR S O R S O NRR SC Y R SC Y OR C1 C12 alkyl C2 C8 alkenyl C Calkynyl C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl and C Cheteroaryl or C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl or C Cheteroaryl 

where said alkyl alkenyl alkynyl carbocyclyl heterocyclyl aryl and heteroaryl are optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from F Cl Br I CN CF NO oxo C Y R C Y OR C Y NRR CRR NRR CRR C Y NRR CRR C Y OR CRR NRSOR CRR OR CRR R CRR SOR NRR NRC Y R NRC Y OR NRC Y NRR NRSOR NR OR OC Y R OC Y OR OC Y NRR OS O OR OP Y OR OR OP OR OR SR S O R S O R S O NRR S O OR S O OR SC Y R SC Y OR SC Y NRR optionally substituted C Calkyl optionally substituted C Calkenyl optionally substituted C Calkynyl optionally substituted C Ccarbocyclyl optionally substituted C Cheterocyclyl optionally substituted C Caryl and optionally substituted C Cheteroaryl 

 1 hydrogen 2 cyano 3 halogen 4 methyl 5 trifluoromethyl 6 sulfonamido 7 sulfon 8 linker moiety hydrophobic hydrophilic photo cleavable redox reaction cleavable linkers 9 linker moiety with covalently bonded TAG molecules a TAG could be a fluorophor biotin different polymer beads and different reactive groups 

optionally substituted C Calkyl optionally substituted halo substituted C Calkyl optionally substituted C Calkoxy optionally substituted halo substituted C Calkoxy optionally substituted C Cpegylated alkyl 

dye molecules fluorophore dyes for example bodipy or rhodamine derivatives biotine a polymer resin or a reactive group for example acrylamid iodoacetamid fluoroacetamid chloroacetamid bromoacetamid photo reactive chemical groups oxirane carboxamide redox reaction reactive chemical groups 

R R Rand Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen F Cl Br I C C Calkyl NRR CRR NRR C RR NRC Y R CRR NRS O R CH OR R CRR OR CRR S O R CRR S O NRR C Y R C Y OR C Y NRR C Y NROR C O NRS O R C O NR CRR NRR NO NHR NRC Y R NRC Y OR NRC Y NRR NRS O R NRSONRR S O R S O NRR SC Y R SC Y OR C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl and C Cheteroaryl or where the C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl or C Cheteroaryl is substituted at vicinal carbon atoms of the morpholine and forms a fused bicyclic morpholinyl 

where said alkyl alkenyl alkynyl carbocyclyl heterocyclyl aryl and heteroaryl are optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from F Cl Br I CN CF NO oxo C Y R C Y OR C Y NRR CRR NRR CRR C Y NRR CR C Y OR CRR NRSOR CRR OR CRR R CR1R SOR NRR NRC Y R NRC Y OR NRC Y NRR NRSOR NR OR OC Y R OC Y OR OC Y NRR OS O OR OP Y OR OR OP OR OR SR S O R S O R S O NRR S O OR S O OR SC Y R SC Y OR SC Y NRR optionally substituted C Calkyl optionally substituted C Calkenyl optionally substituted C Calkynyl optionally substituted C Ccarbocyclyl optionally substituted C Cheterocyclyl optionally substituted C Caryl and optionally substituted C Cheteroaryl 

 1 H F Cl Br I 2 cyano 3 nitro 4 halogen 5 substituted and unsubstituted alkyl 6 substituted and unsubstituted alkenyl 7 substituted and unsubstituted alkynyl 8 substituted and unsubstituted aryl 9 substituted and unsubstituted heteroaryl 10 substituted and unsubstituted heterocyclyl 11 substituted and unsubstituted cycloalkyl 12 C C Calkyl NRR CRR NRR C RR NRC Y R CRR NRS O R CH OR R CRR OR CRR S O R CR1R S O NRR C Y R C Y OR C Y NRR C Y NROR C O NRS O R C O NR CRR NRR NO NHR NRC Y R NRC Y OR NRC Y NRR NRS O R NRSONRR S O R S O NRR SC Y R SC Y OR C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl or C Cheteroaryl 

 1 hydrogen 2 cyano 3 nitro 4 halogen 5 substituted and unsubstituted alkyl 6 substituted and unsubstituted alkenyl 7 substituted and unsubstituted alkynyl 8 substituted and unsubstituted aryl 9 substituted and unsubstituted heteroaryl 10 substituted and unsubstituted heterocyclyl 11 substituted and unsubstituted cycloalkyl 12 COR 13 COR 14 CONRR 15 NRR 16 NRCOR 17 NRSOR 18 OCOR 19 OR 20 SR 21 SOR 22 SOR and 23 SONRR 24 linker moiety hydrophobic linkers hydrophilic linkers photo cleavable linkers redox reaction cleavable linkers 25 linker moiety with covalently bonded TAG molecules a TAG could be a fluorophor biotin different polymer beads and different reactive groups 

wherein Rand Rare independently selected from the group consisting of a hydrogen b substituted or unsubstituted alkyl c substituted or unsubstituted aryl d substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl e substituted or unsubstituted heterocyclyl and f substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl 

wherein R Rand Rare independently H C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl or C Cheteroaryl 

or R Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached optionally form a C Cheterocyclic ring optionally containing one or more additional ring atoms selected from N O or S wherein said heterocyclic ring is optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from oxo CF F Cl Br I C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl and C Cheteroaryl 

or Rand Rtogether with the atoms to which they are attached form a saturated or partially unsaturated C Ccarbocyclic ring

where the wavy line indicates the attachment to the 4 position of the core ring triazine or pyrimidine or pyridine ring .

In another aspect of the invention Ris substituted or unsubstituted heterocyclyl or substituted or unsubstituted O heterocyclyl. In another aspect Ris substituted or unsubstituted morpholinyl more particularly Ris unsubstituted N linked morpholinyl.

In another aspect Rcomprises substituted or unsubstituted heterocyclylalkyl or substituted or unsubstituted heteroarylalkyl.

In another aspect Ris substituted or unsubstituted tetrahydropyran or substituted or unsubstituted tetrahydropyranyloxy. More particularly Ris unsubstituted 4 tetrahydropyranyloxy.

In another aspect Rcomprises substituted or unsubstituted tetrahydropyran. In a more particular aspect tetrahydropyran comprises 4 tetrahydropyranyloxy.

In another aspect Ris substituted or unsubstituted tetrahydrofuran or substituted or unsubstituted tetrahydrofuranyloxy. More particularly Ris unsubstituted 3 tetrahydrofuranyloxy.

In another aspect Ris phenyl wherein phenyl is unsubstituted or substituted with one or more groups selected from N methylcarboxamide isopropylsulfonylamino methylsulfonyl 2 hydroxy 2 methylpropanamide 2 hydroxypropanamide 2 methoxyacetamide propan 2 ol sulfonyl 2 amino 2 methylpropanamide 2 aminoacetamide 2 hydroxyacetamide methylsulfonylamino 2 dimethylamino acetamide amino acetylamino carboxamide 4 methylsulfonylpiperazino 1 methyl 4 methylpiperazino 1 methyl hydroxymethyl and methoxy.

In certain embodiments Ris pyridyl thiazolyl isoxazolyl oxadiazolyl or pyrimidyl which heterocycyl group is unsubstituted or substituted with one or more groups selected from N methylcarboxamide isopropylsulfonylamino methylsulfonyl 2 hydroxy 2 methylpropanamide 2 hydroxypropanamide 2 meth oxyacetamide propan 2 ol sulfonyl 2 amino 2 methylpropanamide 2 aminoacetamide 2 hydroxyacetamide methylsulfonylamino 2 dimethylamino acetamide amino acetylamino carboxamide 4 methylsulfonylpiperazino 1 methyl 4 methylpiperazino 1 methyl hydroxymethyl and methoxy.

In another aspect of the invention Ris substituted or unsubstituted heterocyclyl or substituted or unsubstituted O heterocyclyl.

In another aspect Rcomprises substituted or unsubstituted heterocyclylalkyl or substituted or unsubstituted heteroarylalkyl.

In another aspect Ris a monocyclic heteroaryl group selected from pyridyl isoxazolyl imidazolyl pyrazolyl pyrrolyl thiazolyl pyridazinyl pyrimidinyl pyrazinyl oxazolyl furanyl thienyl triazolyl tetrazolyl where the monocyclic heteroaryl group is optionally substituted with one or more groups selected from F Cl Br I CN NRR OR C O R NRC O R N C O R NRC O NRR C O OR C O NRR C1 C12 alkyl and C1 C12 alkyl OR 

where the wavy line indicates the attachment to the 4 position of the core ring triazine or pyrimidine or pyridine ring and

where the monocyclic heteroaryl group is optionally substituted with one or more groups selected from F Cl Br I NRR OR C O R NRC O R N C O R NRC O NRR C O OR C O NRR and C Calkyl.

where the wavy line indicates the attachment to the 4 position of the core ring triazine or pyrimidine or pyridine ring and

where the monocyclic heteroaryl group is optionally substituted with one or more groups selected from F Cl Br I NRR OR C O R NRC O R N C O R NRC O NRR C O OR C O NRR and C Calkyl.

In certain embodiments Ris a monocyclic or bicyclic heteroraryl group selected from the following structures 

In certain embodiments the monocyclic or bicyclic heteroaryl group is substituted with one or more groups selected from F NH NHCH N CH OH OCH C O CH NHC O CH N C O CH NHC O NH COH CHO CHOH C O NHCH C O NH and CH.

and stereoisomers geometric isomers tautomers solvates metabolites N oxide derivatives and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof wherein

The preferences particular aspects and embodiments set forth above for X R R R R. Rand Rin formula I apply to these substituents in formula Ia .

and stereoisomers geometric isomers tautomers solvates metabolites N oxid derivatives and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof wherein

F Cl Br I C C Calkyl NRR CRR NRR C RR NRC Y R CRR NRS O R CH OR R CRR OR CRR S O R CRR S O NRR C Y R C Y OR C Y NRR C Y NROR C O NRS O R C O NR CRR NRR NO NHR NRC Y R NRC Y OR NRC Y NRR NRS O R NRSONRR S O R S O NRR SC Y R SC Y OR C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl and C Cheteroaryl or where the C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl or C Cheteroaryl is substituted at vicinal carbon atoms of the morpholine and forms a fused bicyclic morpholinyl 

where said alkyl alkenyl alkynyl carbocyclyl heterocyclyl aryl and heteroaryl are optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from F Cl Br I CN CF NO oxo C Y R C Y OR C Y NRR CRR NRR CRR C Y NRR CRR C Y OR CRR NRSOR CRR OR CRR R CRR SOR NRR NRC Y R RC Y OR NRC Y NRR NRSOR NR OR OC Y R C Y OR OC Y NRR OS O OR OP Y OR OR OP OR OR SR S O R S O R S O NRR S O OR S O OR SC Y R C Y OR SC Y NRR optionally substituted C Calkyl optionally substituted C Calkenyl optionally substituted C Calkynyl optionally substituted C Ccarbocyclyl optionally substituted C Cheterocyclyl optionally substituted C Caryl and optionally substituted C Cheteroaryl 

wherein R Rand Rare independently H C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl or C Chetero aryl 

or R Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached optionally form a C Cheterocyclic ring optionally containing one or more additional ring atoms selected from N O or S wherein said heterocyclic ring is optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from oxo CH OR CH NRR CF F Cl Br I SOR C O R NRC Y R C Y NRR C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl and C Cheteroaryl 

or Rand Rtogether with the atoms to which they are attached form a saturated or partially unsaturated C Ccarbocyclic ring

The preferences particular aspects and embodiments set forth above for R R R R. Rand Rin formula I apply to these substituents in formula Ib .

and stereoisomers geometric isomers tautomers solvates metabolites N oxide derivatives and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof wherein

 1 H F Cl Br I 2 cyano 3 nitro 4 halogen 5 substituted and unsubstituted alkyl 6 substituted and unsubstituted alkenyl 7 substituted and unsubstituted alkynyl 8 substituted and unsubstituted aryl 9 substituted and unsubstituted heteroaryl 10 substituted and unsubstituted heterocyclyl 11 substituted and unsubstituted cycloalkyl 12 C C Calkyl NRR CRR NRR C RR NRC Y R CRR NRS O R CH OR R CRR OR CRR S O R CRR S O NRR C Y R C Y OR C Y NRR C Y NROR C O NRS O R C O NR CRR NRR NO NHR NRC Y R NRC Y OR NRC Y NRR NRS O R NRSONRR S O R S O NRR SC Y R SC Y OR C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl or C Cheteroaryl 13 linker moiety hydrophobic linkers hydrophilic linkers photo cleavable linkers redox reaction cleavable linkers 14 linker moiety with covalently bonded TAG molecules a TAG could be a fluorophor biotin different polymer beads and different reactive groups wherein R R R R R Y m n and t are as defined above for formula I .

The preferences particular aspects and embodiments set forth above for R R R Rand Rin formula I apply to these substituents in formula Ic .

In another aspect of the invention R is substituted or unsubstituted heterocyclyl or substituted or unsubstituted O heterocyclyl. In another aspect R is substituted or unsubstituted morpholinyl more particularly R is unsubstituted N linked morpholinyl more particularly X is a direct link. In another more particular embodiment Ris 4 tetrahydropyranyl more particularly X is O. In another embodiment Ris 3 tetrahydrofuranyl more particularly X is O.

In another aspect thereof R comprises substituted or unsubstituted heterocyclylalkyl or substituted or unsubstituted heteroarylalkyl.

In another aspect R is substituted or unsubstituted tetrahydropyran or substituted or unsubstituted tetrahydropyranyloxy. More particularly R is unsubstituted 4 tetrahydropyranyloxy.

In another aspect thereof R comprises substituted or unsubstituted tetrahydropyran. In a more particular aspect tetrahydropyran comprises 4 tetrahydropyranyloxy.

In another aspect R is substituted or unsubstituted tetrahydrofuran or substituted or unsubstituted tetrahydrofuranyloxy. More particularly R is unsubstituted 3 tetrahydrofuranyloxy.

In another aspect R is phenyl wherein phenyl is unsubstituted or substituted with one or more groups selected from N methylcarboxamide isopropylsulfonylamino methylsulfonyl 2 hydroxy 2 methylpropanamide 2 hydroxypropanamide 2 methoxyacetamide propan 2 ol sulfonyl 2 amino 2 methylpropanamide 2 aminoacetamide 2 hydroxyacetamide methylsulfonylamino 2 dimethylamino acetamide amino acetylamino carboxamide 4 methylsulfonylpiperazino 1 methyl 4 methylpiperazino 1 methyl hydroxymethyl and methoxy.

In certain embodiments R is pyridyl thiazolyl isoxazolyl oxadiazolyl or pyrimidyl which heterocycyl group is unsubstituted or substituted with one or more groups selected from N methylcarboxamide isopropylsulfonylamino methylsulfonyl 2 hydroxy 2 methylpropanamide 2 hydroxypropanamide 2 methoxyacetamide propan 2 ol sulfonyl 2 amino 2 methylpropanamide 2 aminoacetamide 2 hydroxyacetamide methylsulfonylamino 2 dimethylamino acetamide amino acetylamino carboxamide 4 methylsulfonylpiperazino 1 methyl 4 methylpiperazino 1 methyl hydroxymethyl and methoxy.

In another embodiment R is selected from the group consisting of 1 substituted or unsubstituted morpholinyl 2 substituted or unsubstituted tetrahydropyranyl and 3 substituted or unsubstituted tetrahydrofuranyl.

In a more particular embodiment thereof R is N linked morpholinyl. In another more particular embodiment R is 4 tetrahydropyranyl. In another embodiment R is 3 tetrahydrofuranyl.

and stereoisomers geometric isomers tautomers solvates metabolites N oxide derivatives and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof wherein

 1 hydrogen 2 cyano 3 nitro 4 halogen 5 substituted and unsubstituted alkyl 6 substituted and unsubstituted alkenyl 7 substituted and unsubstituted alkynyl 8 substituted and unsubstituted aryl 9 substituted and unsubstituted heteroaryl 10 substituted and unsubstituted heterocyclyl 11 substituted and unsubstituted cycloalkyl 12 COR 13 NRR 14 NRCOR 15 NRSOR 16 OR 17 SR 18 SOR 19 SOR and 20 SONRR wherein R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of a hydrogen b substituted or unsubstituted alkyl c substituted and unsubstituted aryl d substituted and unsubstituted heteroaryl e substituted and unsubstituted heterocyclyl and f substituted and unsubstituted cycloalky and

 1 hydrogen 2 substituted and unsubstituted alkyl and 3 substituted and unsubstituted cycloalkyl 4 methyl 5 ethyl 6 trifluoromethyl 7 sulfonamid 8 acetate 9 linker moiety hydrophobic linkers hydrophilic linkers photo cleavable linkers redox reaction cleavable linkers 10 linker moiety with covalently bonded TAG molecules a TAG could be a fluorophor biotin different polymer beads and different reactive groups .

The preferences particular aspects and embodiments set forth above for R R R R and Rin formula I apply to these substituents in formula Id .

 1 cyano 2 nitro 3 halogen 4 hydroxyl 5 amino and 6 trifluoromethyl. In another embodiment Ris trifluoromethyl. In another embodiment Ris cyano.

and stereoisomers geometric isomers tautomers solvates metabolites N oxide derivatives and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof wherein

 1 H F Cl Br I 2 cyano 3 nitro 4 halogen 5 substituted and unsubstituted alkyl 6 substituted and unsubstituted alkenyl 7 substituted and unsubstituted alkynyl 8 substituted and unsubstituted aryl 9 substituted and unsubstituted heteroaryl 10 substituted and unsubstituted heterocyclyl 11 substituted and unsubstituted cycloalkyl 12 C C Calkyl NRR CRR NRR C RR NRC Y R CRR NRS O R CH OR R CRR OR CRR S O R CRR S O NRR C Y R C Y OR C Y NRR C Y NROR C O NRS O R C O NR CRR NRR NO NHR NRC Y R NRC Y OR NRC Y NRR NRS O R NRSONRR S O R S O NRR SC Y R SC Y OR C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl or C Cheteroaryl 13 linker moiety hydrophobic linkers hydrophilic linkers photo cleavable linkers redox reaction cleavable linkers 14 linker moiety with covalently bonded TAG molecules a TAG could be a fluorophor biotin different polymer beads and different reactive groups wherein R R R R R Y m n and t are as defined above for formula I .

The preferences particular aspects and embodiments set forth above for X R R R Rand Rin formula I apply to these substituents in formula Ie .

In another aspect of the invention R is substituted or unsubstituted heterocyclyl or substituted or unsubstituted O heterocyclyl. In another aspect R is substituted or unsubstituted morpholinyl more particularly R is unsubstituted N linked morpholinyl more particular still X is a direct link. In another more particular embodiment Ris 4 tetrahydropyranyl more particularly X is O. In another embodiment Ris 3 tetrahydrofuranyl more particularly X is O.

In another aspect thereof R comprises substituted or unsubstituted heterocyclylalkyl or substituted or unsubstituted heteroarylalkyl.

In another aspect R is substituted or unsubstituted tetrahydropyran or substituted or unsubstituted tetrahydropyranyloxy. More particularly R is unsubstituted 4 tetrahydropyranyloxy.

In another aspect thereof R comprises substituted or unsubstituted tetrahydropyran. In a more particular aspect tetrahydropyran comprises 4 tetrahydropyranyloxy.

In another aspect R is substituted or unsubstituted tetrahydrofuran or substituted or unsubstituted tetrahydrofuranyloxy. More particularly R is unsubstituted 3 tetrahydrofuranyloxy.

In another aspect R is phenyl wherein phenyl is unsubstituted or substituted with one or more groups selected from N methylcarboxamide isopropylsulfonylamino methylsulfonyl 2 hydroxy 2 methylpropanamide 2 hydroxypropanamide 2 methoxyacetamide propan 2 ol sulfonyl 2 amino 2 methylpropanamide 2 aminoacetamide 2 hydroxyacetamide methylsulfonylamino 2 dimethylamino acetamide amino acetylamino carboxamide 4 methylsulfonylpiperazino 1 methyl 4 methylpiperazino 1 methyl hydroxymethyl and methoxy.

In certain embodiments R is pyridyl thiazolyl isoxazolyl oxadiazolyl or pyrimidyl which heterocycyl group is unsubstituted or substituted with one or more groups selected from N methylcarboxamide isopropylsulfonylamino methylsulfonyl 2 hydroxy 2 methylpropanamide 2 hydroxypropanamide 2 methoxyacetamide propan 2 ol sulfonyl 2 amino 2 methylpropanamide 2 aminoacetamide 2 hydroxyacetamide methylsulfonylamino 2 dimethylamino acetamide amino acetylamino carboxamide 4 methylsulfonylpiperazino 1 methyl 4 methylpiperazino 1 methyl hydroxymethyl and methoxy.

In another embodiment R is selected from the group consisting of 1 substituted or unsubstituted morpholinyl 2 substituted or unsubstituted tetrahydropyranyl and 3 substituted or unsubstituted tetrahydrofuranyl.

In a more particular embodiment thereof R is N linked morpholinyl. In another more particular embodiment R is 4 tetrahydropyranyl. In another embodiment R is 3 tetrahydrofuranyl.

and stereoisomers geometric isomers tautomers solvates metabolites N oxide derivatives and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof wherein

 1 linker moiety hydrophobic linkers hydrophilic linkers photo cleavable linkers redox reaction cleavable linkers 2 linker moiety with covalently bonded TAG molecules a TAG could be a fluorophor biotin different polymer beads and different reactive groups 

 1 H F Cl Br I 2 cyano 3 nitro 4 halogen 5 substituted and unsubstituted alkyl 6 substituted and unsubstituted alkenyl 7 substituted and unsubstituted alkynyl 8 substituted and unsubstituted aryl 9 substituted and unsubstituted heteroaryl 10 substituted and unsubstituted heterocyclyl 11 substituted and unsubstituted cycloalkyl 12 C C Calkyl NRR CRR NRR C RR NRC Y R CRR NRS O R CH OR R CRR OR CRR S O R CRR S O NRR C Y R C Y OR C Y NRR C Y NROR C O NRS O R C O NR CRR NRR NO NHR NRC Y R NRC Y OR NRC Y NRR NRS O R NRSONRR S O R S O NRR SC Y R SC Y OR C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl or C Cheteroaryl 13 linker moiety hydrophobic linkers hydrophilic linkers photo cleavable linkers redox reaction cleavable linkers 14 linker moiety with covalently bonded TAG molecules a TAG could be a fluorophor biotin different polymer beads and different reactive groups wherein 

Rand Rare independently H C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl or C Cheteroaryl 

 1 hydrogen 2 cyano 3 nitro 4 halogen 5 substituted and unsubstituted alkyl 6 substituted and unsubstituted alkenyl 7 substituted and unsubstituted alkynyl 8 substituted and unsubstituted aryl 9 substituted and unsubstituted heteroaryl 10 substituted and unsubstituted heterocyclyl 11 substituted and unsubstituted cycloalkyl 12 COR 13 COR 14 CONRR 15 NRR 16 NRCOR 17 NRSOR 18 OCOR 19 OR 20 SR 21 SOR 22 SOR and 23 SONRR 24 linker moiety hydrophobic linkers hydrophilic linkers photo cleavable linkers redox reaction cleavable linkers 25 linker moiety with covalently bonded TAG molecules a TAG could be a fluorophor biotin different polymer beads and different reactive groups 

wherein Rand Rare independently selected from the group consisting of a hydrogen b substituted or unsubstituted alkyl c substituted or unsubstituted aryl d substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl e substituted or unsubstituted heterocyclyl and f substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl 

or R Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached optionally form a C Cheterocyclic ring optionally containing one or more additional ring atoms selected from N O or S wherein said heterocyclic ring is optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from oxo CF F Cl Br I C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl and C Cheteroaryl 

or Rand Rtogether with the atoms to which they are attached form a saturated or partially unsaturated C Ccarbocyclic ring

The preferences particular aspects and embodiments set forth above for X R R R Rand Rin formula I apply to these substituents in formulas If and Ig .

In particular aspect of the invention Ris substituted or unsubstituted heterocyclyl or substituted or unsubstituted O heterocyclyl. In another aspect Ris substituted or unsubstituted morpholinyl more particularly Ris unsubstituted N linked morpholinyl.

In another aspect Rcomprises substituted or unsubstituted heterocyclylalkyl or substituted or unsubstituted heteroarylalkyl.

In another aspect Ris substituted or unsubstituted tetrahydropyran or substituted or unsubstituted tetrahydropyranyloxy. More particularly Ris unsubstituted 4 tetrahydropyranyloxy.

In another aspect thereof Rcomprises substituted or unsubstituted tetrahydropyran. In a more particular aspect tetrahydropyran comprises 4 tetrahydropyranyloxy.

In another aspect Ris substituted or unsubstituted tetrahydrofuran or substituted or unsubstituted tetrahydrofuranyloxy. More particularly Ris unsubstituted 3 tetrahydrofuranyloxy.

In another aspect Ris optionally substituted phenyl wherein phenyl is substituted with one or more groups selected from N methylcarboxamide isopropylsulfonylamino methylsulfonyl 2 hydroxy 2 methylpropanamide 2 hydroxypropanamide 2 methoxyacetamide propan 2 ol sulfonyl 2 amino 2 methylpropanamide 2 aminoacetamide 2 hydroxyacetamide methylsulfonylamino 2 dimethylamino acetamide amino acetylamino carboxamide 4 methylsulfonylpiperazino 1 methyl 4 methylpiperazino 1 methyl hydroxymethyl and methoxy.

In certain embodiments Ris optionally substituted pyridyl optionally substituted thiazolyl optionally substituted isoxazolyl optionally substituted oxadiazolyl or optionally substituted pyrimidyl.

In another embodiment Ris selected from the group consisting of 1 substituted or unsubstituted morpholinyl 2 substituted or unsubstituted tetrahydropyranyl and 3 substituted or unsubstituted tetrahydrofuranyl.

In a more particular embodiment thereof Ris N linked morpholinyl. In another more particular embodiment Ris 4 tetrahydropyranyl in another embodiment Ris 3 tetrahydrofuranyl.

and stereoisomers geometric isomers tautomers solvates metabolites N oxide derivatives and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof wherein

 1 H F Cl Br I 2 cyano 3 nitro 4 halogen 5 substituted and unsubstituted alkyl 6 substituted and unsubstituted alkenyl 7 substituted and unsubstituted alkynyl 8 substituted and unsubstituted aryl 9 substituted and unsubstituted heteroaryl 10 substituted and unsubstituted heterocyclyl 11 substituted and unsubstituted cycloalkyl 12 C C Calkyl NRR CRR NRR C RR NRC Y R CRR NRS O R CH OR R CRR OR CRR S O R CRR S O NRR C Y R C Y OR C Y NRR C Y NROR C O NRS O R C O NR CRR NRR NO NHR NRC Y R NRC Y OR NRC Y NRR NRS O R NRSONRR S O R S O NRR SC Y R SC Y OR C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl or C Cheteroaryl 13 linker moiety hydrophobic linkers hydrophilic linkers photo cleavable linkers redox reaction cleavable linkers 14 linker moiety with covalently bonded TAG molecules a TAG could be a fluorophor biotin different polymer beads and different reactive groups wherein R R R R R Y m n and t are as defined above for formula I .

In another aspect of the invention Ris substituted or unsubstituted heterocyclyl or substituted or unsubstituted O heterocyclyl. In another aspect Ris substituted or unsubstituted morpholinyl more particularly Ris unsubstituted N linked morpholinyl.

In another aspect Rcomprises substituted or unsubstituted heterocyclylalkyl or substituted or unsubstituted heteroarylalkyl.

In another aspect Ris substituted or unsubstituted tetrahydropyran or substituted or unsubstituted tetrahydropyranyloxy. More particularly Ris unsubstituted 4 tetrahydropyranyloxy.

In another aspect thereof Rcomprises substituted or unsubstituted tetrahydropyran. In a more particular aspect tetrahydropyran comprises 4 tetrahydropyranyloxy.

In another aspect Ris substituted or unsubstituted tetrahydrofuran or substituted or unsubstituted tetrahydrofuranyloxy. More particularly Ris unsubstituted 3 tetrahydrofuranyloxy.

In another aspect Ris optionally substituted phenyl wherein phenyl is substituted with one or more groups selected from N methylcarboxamide isopropylsulfonylamino methylsulfonyl 2 hydroxy 2 methylpropanamide 2 hydroxypropanamide 2 methoxyacetamide propan 2 ol sulfonyl 2 amino 2 methylpropanamide 2 aminoacetamide 2 hydroxyacetamide methylsulfonylamino 2 dimethylamino acetamide amino acetylamino carboxamide 4 methylsulfonylpiperazino 1 methyl 4 methylpiperazino 1 methyl hydroxymethyl and methoxy.

In certain embodiments Ris optionally substituted pyridyl optionally substituted thiazolyl optionally substituted isoxazolyl optionally substituted oxadiazolyl or optionally substituted pyrimidyl.

In another embodiment Ris selected from the group consisting of 1 substituted or unsubstituted morpholinyl 2 substituted or unsubstituted tetrahydropyranyl and 3 substituted or unsubstituted tetrahydrofuranyl.

In a more particular embodiment thereof Ris N linked morpholinyl. In another more particular embodiment Ris 4 tetrahydropyranyl in another embodiment Ris 3 tetrahydrofuranyl.

The compounds of the invention may contain asymmetric or chiral centers and therefore exist in different stereoisomeric forms. It is intended that all stereoisomeric forms of the compounds of the invention including but not limited to diastereomers enantiomers and atropisomers as well as mixtures thereof such as racemic mixtures form part of the present invention.

In addition the present invention embraces all geometric and positional isomers. For example if a compound of the invention incorporates a double bond or a fused ring the cis and trans forms as well as mixtures thereof are embraced within the scope of the invention. Both the single positional isomers and mixture of positional isomers are also within the scope of the present invention.

In the structures shown herein where the stereochemistry of any particular chiral atom is not specified then all stereoisomers are contemplated and included as the compounds of the invention. Where stereochemistry is specified by a solid wedge or dashed line representing a particular configuration then that stereoisomer is so specified and defined.

The compounds of the present invention may exist in unsolvated as well as solvated forms with pharmaceutically acceptable solvents such as water ethanol and the like and it is intended that the invention embraces both solvated and unsolvated forms.

The compounds of the invention may also exist in different tautomeric forms tautomers and all such forms are embraced with the scope of the invention.

The present invention also embrace a isotopically labelled compounds of the present invention which are identical to those recited herein but for the fact that one or more atoms are replaced by an atom having an atomic mass or mass number different from the atomic mass or mass number usually found in nature. All isotopes of any particular atom or element as specified are contemplated within the scope of the compounds of the invention and their uses. Exemplary isotopes that can be incorporated into compounds of the invention include isotopes of hydrogen carbon nitrogen oxygen phosphorus sulphur fluorine chlorine and iodine such as H H C C C N O O O P P S F Cl I and I. Certain isotopically labelled compounds of the present invention e.g. those labelled with H and C are useful in compound and or substrate tissue distribution assays. Tritiated 3H and carbon 14 C isotopes are useful for their ease of preparation and detectability. Further substitution with heavier isotopes such as deuterium i.e. H may afford certain therapeutic advantages resulting from greater metabolic stability e.g. increased in vivo half life or reduced dosage requirements and hence may be preferred in some circumstances. Positron emitting isotopes such as O N C and F are useful for positron emission tomography PET studies to examine substrate receptor occupancy. Isotopically labelled compounds of the present invention can generally be prepared by following procedures analogous to those disclosed in the Schemes and or in the Examples herein below by substituting an isotopically labelled reagent for a non isotopically labeled reagent. Preparation of Compounds of the Invention

The compounds of the invention may be synthesized by synthetic routes that include processes analogous to those well known in the chemical arts particularly in light of the description contained herein. The starting materials are generally available from commercial sources such as Aldrich Chemicals or are readily prepared using methods well known to those skilled in the art e.g. prepared by methods generally described in Louis F. Fieser and Mary Fieser Reagents for Organic Synthesis v. 1 19 Wiley N. Y. 1967 1999 ed. or Beilsteins Handbuch der organischen Chemie 4 Aufl. ed. Springer Verlag Berlin including supplements also available via the Beilstein online database .

In certain embodiments the compounds of the invention may be readily prepared using procedures well known to prepare triazines and other heterocycles which are described in Comprehensive Heterocyclic Chemistry Editors Katritzky and Rees Pergamon Press 1984.

Compounds of the invention may be prepared singly or as compound libraries comprising at least 2 for example 5 to 1 000 compounds or 10 to 100 compounds. Libraries of compounds of the invention may be prepared by a combinatorial split and mix approach or by multiple parallel syntheses using either solution phase or solid phase chemistry by procedures well known to those skilled in the art. Thus according to a further aspect of the invention there is provided a compound library comprising at least 2 compounds or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof.

For illustrative purposes Schemes 1 52 show general methods for preparing the compounds of the present invention as well as key intermediates. For a more detailed description of the individual reaction steps see the Examples hereinbelow. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that other synthetic routes may be used to synthesize the compounds of the invention. Although specific starting materials and reagents are depicted in the Schemes and discussed below other starting materials and reagents can be easily substituted to provide a variety of derivatives and or reaction conditions. In addition many of the compounds prepared by the methods described below can be further modified in light of this disclosure using conventional chemistry well known to those skilled in the art.

In preparing compounds of the invention protection of remote functionality e.g. primary or secondary amine of intermediates may be necessary. The need for such protection will vary depending on the nature of the remote functionality and the conditions of the preparation methods. Suitable amino protecting groups include acetyl trifluoroacetyl t butoxycarbonyl BOC benzyloxycarbonyl CBz and 9 fluorenylmethyleneoxycarbonyl Fmoc . The need for such protection is readily determined by one skilled in the art. For a general description of protecting groups and their use see T. W. Greene Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis John Wiley Sons New York 1991.

Scheme 1 shows a general method for preparation of the triazine intermediate 2 from 2 4 6 trihalo 1 3 5 triazine reagent 1 wherein Hal is Cl Br or I and Ris as defined for formula Ia d compounds or precursors or prodrugs thereto.

Scheme 2 shows a general method for preparation of the triazine intermediate 3 from 2 4 6 trihalo 1 3 5 triazine reagent 1 wherein Hal is Cl Br or I and Ris as defined for formula Ia d compounds or precursors or prodrugs thereto.

Scheme 3 shows a general method for selectively displacing a halide from bis halo triazine intermediate 2 with morpholine in an organic solvent to prepare morpholino triazine intermediate 4 compounds wherein Hal is Cl Br or I and Ris as defined for formula Ia d compounds or precursors or prodrugs thereto.

Scheme 4 shows a general method for selectively displacing two halides from tris halo triazine 1 with morpholine in an organic solvent to prepare bis morpholino triazine intermediate 5 compounds wherein Hal is Cl Br or I.

Scheme 5 shows a general method for Suzuki type coupling of a 1 halo triazine intermediate 3 with a cyclic heteroaryl boronate acid R H or ester R alkyl reagent 6 to prepare the cyclic heteroaryl Hy compounds 7 of formulas Ia wherein Hal is Cl Br or I and Rand Rare as defined for formula Ia compounds or precursors or prodrugs thereto. For reviews of the Suzuki reaction see Miyaura et al. 1995 Chem. Rev. 95 2457 2483 Suzuki A. 1999 J. Organomet. Chem. 576 147 168 Suzuki A. in Metal Catalyzed Cross Coupling Reactions Diederich F. Stang P. J. Eds. VCH Weinheim Del. 1998 pp 49 97. The palladium catalyst may be any that is typically used for Suzuki type cross couplings such as PdCl PPh Pd PPh Pd OAc PdCl dppf DCM Pd dba Pt Bu Owens et al. 2003 Bioorganic Med. Chem. Letters 13 4143 4145 Molander et al. 2002 Organic Letters 4 11 1867 1870 U.S. Pat. No. 6 448 433 .

Scheme 6 shows a general method for Suzuki type coupling of a 1 halo morpholino triazine intermediate 4 with a cyclic heteroaryl boronate acid R H or ester R alkyl reagent 6 to prepare the cyclic heteroaryl Hy compounds 8 of formulas Ia wherein Hal is Cl Br or I and Rand Rare as defined for formula Ia compounds or precursors or prodrugs thereto.

Scheme 7 shows a general method for Suzuki type coupling of a 1 halo bis morpholino triazine intermediate 5 with a cyclic heteroaryl boronate acid R H or ester R alkyl reagent 6 to prepare the cyclic heteroaryl Hy compounds 9 of formulas Ib wherein Hal is Cl Br or I and Ris as defined for formula Ib compounds or precursors or prodrugs thereto.

Scheme 8 shows a general method for preparation of the triazine intermediate 10 from 2 4 6 trihalo 1 3 5 triazine reagent 1 wherein Hal is Cl Br or I and R and Yare as defined for formula Ic compounds or precursors or prodrugs thereto.

Scheme 9 shows a general method for preparation of the triazine intermediate 11 from 2 4 6 trihalo 1 3 5 triazine reagent 1 wherein Hal is Cl Br or I and R and Yare as defined for formula Ic compounds or precursors or prodrugs thereto.

Scheme 10 shows a general method for preparation of the triazine intermediate 12 from triazine intermediate 10 wherein Hal is Cl Br or I and R and Yare as defined for formula Ic compounds or precursors or prodrugs thereto.

Scheme 11 shows a general method for preparation of the triazine intermediate 12 from triazine intermediate 13 wherein Hal is Cl Br or I and R and Yare as defined for formula Ic compounds or precursors or prodrugs thereto.

Scheme 12 shows a general method for Suzuki type coupling of a triazine intermediate 11 with a cyclic heteroaryl boronate acid R H or ester R alkyl reagent 6 to prepare the cyclic heteroaryl Hy compounds 14 wherein Hal is Cl Br or I R and Yare as defined for formula Ic compounds and Ris as defined for formula I compounds or precursors or prodrugs thereto.

Scheme 13 shows a general method for Suzuki type coupling of a triazine intermediate 12 with a cyclic heteroaryl boronate acid R H or ester R alkyl reagent 6 to prepare the cyclic heteroaryl Hy compounds 15 wherein Hal is Cl Br or I R and Yare as defined for formula Ic compounds and Ris as defined for formula I compounds or precursors or prodrugs thereto.

Scheme 14 shows a general method for Suzuki type coupling of a triazine intermediate 12 with a cyclic heteroaryl boronate acid R H or ester R alkyl reagent 6 to prepare cyclic heteroaryl Hy compounds 16 wherein R and Yare as defined for formula Ic compounds R Rand W are as defined for formula Id compounds or precursors or prodrugs thereto.

Scheme 14 shows a general method for Suzuki type coupling of a triazine intermediate 12 with a cyclic heteroaryl boronate acid R H or ester R alkyl reagent 6 to prepare cyclic heteroaryl Hy compounds 17 wherein R and Yare as defined for formula Ic compounds R R Rand W are as defined for formula Id compounds or precursors or prodrugs thereto.

Scheme 16 shows a general method for preparation of triazine compounds 17 from triazine compounds 16 wherein R and Yare as defined for formula Ic compounds R R Rand W are as defined for formula Id compounds or precursors or prodrugs thereto.

Scheme 17 shows a general method for preparation of the pyridine intermediate 19 from 2 4 6 trihalopyridine reagent 18 wherein Hal is Cl Br or I and Ris as defined for formula I compounds or precursors or prodrugs thereto.

Scheme 18 shows a general method for preparation of the pyridine intermediate 20 from 2 4 6 trihalopyridine reagent 18 wherein Hal is Cl Br or I and Ris as defined for formula I compounds or precursors or prodrugs thereto.

Scheme 19 shows a general method for preparation of the pyridine intermediate 21 from 2 4 6 trihalopyridine reagent 18 wherein Hal is Cl Br or I and Ris as defined for formula I compounds or precursors or prodrugs thereto.

Scheme 20 shows a general method for preparation of the pyridine intermediate 22 from 2 4 6 trihalopyridine reagent 18 wherein Hal is Cl Br or I and Ris as defined for formula I compounds or precursors or prodrugs thereto.

Scheme 21 shows a general method for preparation of the pyridine intermediate 21 from dihalopyridine reagent 19 wherein Hal is Cl Br or I and Ris as defined for formula I compounds or precursors or prodrugs thereto.

Scheme 22 shows a general method for preparation of the pyridine intermediate 22 from dihalopyridine reagent 19 wherein Hal is Cl Br or I and Ris as defined for formula I compounds or precursors or prodrugs thereto.

Scheme 23 shows a general method for preparation of the pyridine intermediate 21 from dihalopyridine reagent 20 wherein Hal is Cl Br or I and Ris as defined for formula I compounds or precursors or prodrugs thereto.

Scheme 21 shows a general method for preparation of the pyridine intermediate 23 from 2 4 6 trihalopyridine 18 and morpholine reagents wherein Hal is Cl Br or I or precursors or prodrugs thereto.

Scheme 22 shows a general method for preparation of the pyridine intermediate 24 from 2 4 6 trihalopyridine 18 and morpholine reagents wherein Hal is Cl Br or I or precursors or prodrugs thereto.

Scheme 23 shows a general method for preparation of the pyridine intermediate 25 from 2 4 6 trihalopyridine 18 and morpholine reagents wherein Hal is Cl Br or I.

Scheme 24 shows a general method for preparation of the pyridine intermediate 26 from 2 4 6 trihalopyridine 18 and morpholine reagents wherein Hal is Cl Br or I.

Scheme 25 shows a general method for Suzuki type coupling of a 1 halo pyridine intermediate 21 with a cyclic heteroaryl boronate acid R H or ester R alkyl reagent 6 to prepare the cyclic heteroaryl Hy compounds 27 of formula I wherein Hal is Cl Br or I and Rand Rare as defined for formula I compounds or precursors or prodrugs thereto.

Scheme 26 shows a general method for Suzuki type coupling of a 1 halo pyridine intermediate 22 with a cyclic heteroaryl boronate acid R H or ester R alkyl reagent 6 to prepare the cyclic heteroaryl Hy compounds 28 of formula I wherein Hal is Cl Br or I and Rand Rare as defined for formula I compounds or precursors or prodrugs thereto.

Scheme 27 shows a general method for Suzuki type coupling of a dimorpholino pyridine intermediate 25 with a cyclic heteroaryl boronate acid R H or ester R alkyl reagent 6 to prepare the cyclic heteroaryl Hy compounds 29 of formula I wherein Hal is Cl Br or I and Ris as defined for formula I compounds or precursors or prodrugs thereto.

Scheme 28 shows a general method for Suzuki type coupling of a dimorpholino pyridine intermediate 26 with a cyclic heteroaryl boronate acid R H or ester R alkyl reagent 6 to prepare the cyclic heteroaryl Hy compounds 30 of formula I wherein Hal is Cl Br or I and Ris as defined for formula I compounds or precursors or prodrugs thereto.

Scheme 29 shows a general method for preparation of the pyridine intermediate 32 from 2 4 6 trihalopyridine reagent 18 wherein Hal is Cl Br or I and R and Yare as defined for formula Ie compounds or precursors or prodrugs thereto.

Scheme 30 shows a general method for preparation of the pyridine intermediate 33 from 2 4 6 trihalopyridine reagent 18 wherein Hal is Cl Br or I and R and Yare as defined for formula Ie compounds or precursors or prodrugs thereto.

Scheme 31 shows a general method for preparation of the pyridine intermediate 34 from dihalopyridine reagent wherein Hal is Cl Br or I R and Yare as defined for formula Ie compounds and Ris as defined for formula I compounds or precursors or prodrugs thereto.

Scheme 32 shows a general method for preparation of the pyridine intermediate 35 from dihalopyridine reagent 32 wherein Hal is Cl Br or I R and Yare as defined for formula Ie compounds and Ris as defined for formula I compounds or precursors or prodrugs thereto.

Scheme 33 shows a general method for preparation of the morpholino pyridine intermediate 36 from dihalopyridine reagent wherein Hal is Cl Br or I and R and Yare as defined for formula e compounds or precursors or prodrugs thereto.

Scheme 34 shows a general method for preparation of the morpholino pyridine intermediate 37 from dihalopyridine reagent wherein Hal is Cl Br or I and R and Yare as defined for formula Ie compounds or precursors or prodrugs thereto.

Scheme 35 shows a general method for preparation of the morpholino pyridine intermediate 36 from morpholino dihalopyridine reagent 23 wherein Hal is Cl Br or I and R and Yare as defined for formula Ie compounds or precursors or prodrugs thereto.

Scheme 36 shows a general method for preparation of the morpholino pyridine intermediate 37 from morpholino dihalopyridine reagent 24 wherein Hal is Cl Br or I and R and Yare as defined for formula Ie compounds or precursors or prodrugs thereto.

Scheme 37 shows a general method for preparation of the morpholino pyridine intermediate 38 from morpholino dihalopyridine reagent 24 wherein Hal is Cl Br or I and R and Yare as defined for formula Ie compounds or precursors or prodrugs thereto.

Scheme 38 shows a general method for Suzuki type coupling of a pyridine intermediate 34 with a cyclic heteroaryl boronate acid R H or ester R alkyl reagent 6 to prepare the cyclic heteroaryl Hy compounds 39 of formula I wherein Hal is Cl Br or I R and Yare as defined for formula Ie compounds and Rand Rare as defined for formula I compounds or precursors or prodrugs thereto.

Scheme 39 shows a general method for Suzuki type coupling of a pyridine intermediate 35 with a cyclic heteroaryl boronate acid R H or ester R alkyl reagent 6 to prepare the cyclic heteroaryl Hy compounds 40 of formula I wherein Hal is Cl Br or I R and Yare as defined in formula Ie compounds and Rand Rare as defined for formula I compounds or precursors or prodrugs thereto.

Scheme 40 shows a general method for Suzuki type coupling of a pyridine intermediate 36 with a cyclic heteroaryl boronate acid R H or ester R alkyl reagent 6 to prepare the cyclic heteroaryl Hy compounds 41 of formula Ie wherein Hal is Cl Br or I R and Yare as defined for formula Ie compounds and Ris as defined for formula I compounds or precursors or prodrugs thereto.

Scheme 41 shows a general method for Suzuki type coupling of a pyridine intermediate 37 with a cyclic heteroaryl boronate acid R H or ester R alkyl reagent 6 to prepare the cyclic heteroaryl Hy compounds 42 of formula Ie wherein Hal is Cl Br or I R and Yare as defined for formula Ie compounds and Ris as defined for formula I compounds or precursors or prodrugs thereto.

Scheme 42 shows a general method for Suzuki type coupling of a pyridine intermediate 38 with a cyclic heteroaryl boronate acid R H or ester R alkyl reagent 6 to prepare the cyclic heteroaryl Hy compounds 43 of formula Ie wherein Hal is Cl Br or I R and Yare as defined for formula Ie compounds and Ris as defined for formula I compounds or precursors or prodrugs thereto.

Scheme 43 shows a general method for preparation of the thiazolopyrimidine and oxazolopyrimidine intermediates 48 and 49 from 5 carboxyester 4 aminothiazole X S and oxazole X O and 4 carboxyester 5 aminothiazole X S and oxazole X O reagents respectively 44 and 45 wherein Yis O or S Hal is Cl Br or I Rand Rare as defined for formula If g.

Scheme 44 shows a general method for selectively displacing a 7 halide from bis halo thiazolopyrimidine and bis halo oxazolopyrimidine intermediates 48 and 49 with morpholine under basic conditions in an organic solvent to prepare 5 halo 7 morpholino thiazolo and oxazolopyrimidine compounds 50 and 51 wherein Yis O or S Hal is Cl Br or I and Ris as defined for formula If g.

Scheme 45 shows a general method for derivatizing the 2 position of thiazolopyrimidine and oxazolopyrimidine compounds 52 and 53 where Ris H. Treating 52 and 53 with a lithiating reagent to remove the 2 position proton followed by adding an acylating reagent RC O Z where Z is a leaving group such as halide NHS ester carboxylate or dialkylamino gives 5 halo 7 morpholino 2 acyl thiazolopyrimidine and oxazolopyrimidine compounds 54 and 55 wherein Yis O or S Hal is Cl Br or I and Ris as defined for formula If g.

Scheme 46 shows a general method for Suzuki type coupling of a 5 halo pyrimidine intermediate 50 and 51 with a cyclic heteroaryl boronate acid R H or ester R alkyl reagent 6 to prepare the 5 cyclic heteroaryl Hy 7 morpholino thiazolopyrimidine and oxazolopyrimidine compounds 52 and 53 of formulas If g wherein Yis O or S Hal is Cl Br or I and Ris as defined for formula If g compounds or precursors or prodrugs thereto. For reviews of the Suzuki reaction see Miyaura et al. 1995 Chem. Rev. 95 2457 2483 Suzuki A. 1999 J. Organomet. Chem. 576 147 168 Suzuki A. in Metal Catalyzed Cross Coupling Reactions Diederich F. Stang P. J. Eds. VCH Weinheim Del. 1998 pp 49 97. The palladium catalyst may be any that is typically used for Suzuki type cross couplings such as PdCl PPh Pd PPh Pd OAc PdCl dppf DCM Pd dba Pt Bu Owens et al. 2003 Bioorganic Med. Chem. Letters 13 4143 4145 Molander et al. 2002 Organic Letters 4 11 1867 1870 U.S. Pat. No. 6 448 433 .

Scheme 47 shows a general method for cellular sulfur oxidation of thieno and thiazolo pyrimidine compounds 56 and 57 through the cytochroms. After sulfur oxidation of thiophene pyrimidine compounds 54 IP of Piramed Roche the thiophene ring acts as an activated Michael system where at the 7 position of the ring a nucleophilic attack is possible and therefore a fast cellular modification of thieno pyrimidine compounds 54. In comparison with thieno pyrimidines thiazolo pyrimidine compounds 55 are chemically more stable through the N atom at the 7 position and no possibility for a nucleophilic attack after sulfur oxidation.

Scheme 48 shows a general method for preparation of linker tag modified fused pyrimidine compounds 59 from morpholino intermediate 58 wherein Hy is a cyclic heteroaryl fragment Yand Z are as defined for compounds of formula If g linker and tag are as defined for formula I compounds or precursors or prodrugs thereto.

Scheme 49 shows a general method for preparation of fused pyrimidine intermediates 64 and 65 from for example 2 carboxamid 3 aminobenzofuran and 3 aminofuropyridine X O L C and 2 carboxamid 3 aminobenzothiophene and 3 aminothienopyridine X S L C respectively 60 and 61 wherein Y is O or S Hal is Cl Br or I Rand L are as defined for formula Ih i.

Scheme 50 shows a general method for selectively displacing a 4 halide from bis halo fused pyrimidine intermediates 66 and 67 with morpholine under basic conditions in an organic solvent to prepare 2 halo 4 morpholino fused pyrimidine compounds 68 and 69 wherein Yis O or S Hal is Cl Br or I and Rand L are as defined for formula Ih i.

Scheme 51 shows a general method for Suzuki type coupling of a 2 halo pyrimidine intermediate 70 and 71 with a cyclic heteroaryl boronate acid R H or ester R alkyl reagent 6 to prepare the 2 cyclic heteroaryl Hy 4 morpholino fused pyrimidine compounds 72 and 73 of formulas Ih i wherein Yis O or S Hal is CI Br or I and Rand L are as defined for formula Ih i compounds or precursors or prodrugs thereto. For reviews of the Suzuki reaction see Miyaura et al. 1995 Chem. Rev. 95 2457 2483 Suzuki A. 1999 J. Organomet. Chem. 576 147 168 Suzuki A. in Metal Catalyzed Cross Coupling Reactions Diederich F. Stang P. J. Eds. VCH Weinheim Del. 1998 pp 49 97. The palladium catalyst may be any that is typically used for Suzuki type cross couplings such as PdCl PPh Pd PPh Pd OAc PdCl dppf DCM Pd dba Pt Bu Owens et al. 2003 Bioorganic Med. Chem. Letters 13 4143 4145 Molander et al. 2002 Organic Letters 4 11 1867 1870 U.S. Pat. No. 6 448 433 .

Scheme 52 shows a general method for preparation of linker tag modified fused pyrimidine compounds 75 from morpholino intermediate 74 wherein Hy is a cyclic heteroaryl fragment Yand L are as defined for formula Ih i compounds and linker and tag are as defined for formula I compounds or precursors or prodrugs thereto.

A solution of 2 4 6 trichloro 1 3 5 triazine 1.00 g 5.42 mmol 1.0 eq. in dioxane 15 ml at room temperature was treated with diisopropylethylamine 1.03 ml 5.96 mmol 1.1 eq. and dropwise with aminopyridine 1.1 eq. and stirred for 2 h. The dioxane was evaporated in vacuo and the residue partitioned between HO 15 ml and CHCl 15 ml . The organic layer was separated and the aqueous layer further extracted with CHCl 2 10 ml . The combined extracts were dried MgSO and concentrated in vacuo. Purification by column chromatography gave the title compound.

A solution of bis chloro triazine compound 100 mg 390 mol 1.0 eq. in dioxane 1 ml at room temperature was treated with diisopropylethylamine 0.10 ml 590 mol 1.5 eq. and morpholine 0.05 ml 590 mol 1.5 eq. and stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The dioxane was evaporated in vacuo and the residue partitioned between HO 5 ml and CHCl 5 ml . The organic layer was separated and the aqueous layer further extracted with CHCl 2 2 ml . The combined extracts were dried MgSO and concentrated in vacuo. Purification by column chromatography gave the desired compound.

Note for some of compounds it was necessary to add an additional amount of morpholine 0.3 eq. after 12 h reaction time and then the reaction mixture was heated 70 C. for 8 h.

247 mg of NaH 60 in mineral oil 10.3 mmol 0.95 eq. was added to a solution of 2 pyridinemethanol 940 l 9.76 mmol 0.90 eq. in THF 20 ml at room temperature and stirred for 30 minutes. After cooling to 78 C. 2 4 6 trichloro 1 3 5 triazine 2.00 g 10.84 mmol 1.0 eq. was added dropwise and the reaction allowed to warm to room temperature and stirred for 3 h. Saturated aqueous NHCl 20 ml was added and the mixture extracted with EtOAc 20 ml . The organic phase was dried MgSO and evaporated in vacuo. Column chromatography gave desired product.

The Suzuki type coupling reaction is useful to attach a cyclic heteroaryl at the 6 position of the triazine or pyridine ring see Schemes 7 and 27 5 or 6 position of the pyrimidine ring see Schemes 46 and 51 . Generally 4 4 6 chloro 1 3 5 triazine 2 4 diyl dimorpholine 77 4 4 6 chloropyridine 2 4 diyl dimorpholine 79 4 5 chlorothiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidin 7 yl morpholine 81 and 2 chloro 4 morpholinobenzofuro 3 2 d pyrimidine 83 may be combined with boronic acid pinacol ester 4.0 eq. in 1 2 dimethoxyethane and 2M NaCO 3 1 for 15 minutes. A catalytic amount or more of a palladium reagent such as dichloro 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene palladium II 0.025 eq. was added and the high pressure glass vessel containing the mixture was bubbled with argon gas and sealed. A variety of boronic acids or boronic esters can be used in place of the pinacol boronic ester indicated. Also alternatively the nitrogen of the pyrimidin 2 amine may be protected for example with a tetrahydropyranyl group. The reaction mixture was then heated at 90 C. for 15 h or more cooled down and diluted with ethyl acetate. The organic solution was washed with mixture of water NaCO NHOH NHOH conc. 32 in water 5 4 1 NHCl sat. and brine dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel flash column chromatography or if necessary by reverse phase HPLC.

7 morpholino 5 pyrimidin 5 yl thiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidine 2 carboxylic acid 84 or pyridinylfuranopyrimidine 86 is treated with 1.5 eq. HATU 3 eq. of an alkylamine R NH and 3 eq. of DIPEA in DMF to approximately 0.1 M concentration. The reaction is stirred until complete and extracted in ethylacetate with saturated bicarbonate solution one time. The organic layer is dried filtered and concentrated to yield the crude intermediate. This intermediate is purified via silica column chromatography or preparative TLC to yield product 85 or 87.

4 2 piperazin 1 ylmethyl 5 pyrimidin 5 yl thiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidin 7 yl morpholine 88 or pyridinylfuropyrimidine 90 is treated with 1.5 eq. HATU 3 eq. of carboxylic acid RCOH and 3 eq. of DIPEA in DMF to approximately 0.1 M concentration. The reaction is stirred until complete and extracted in ethyl acetate with saturated bicarbonate solution one time. The organic layer is dried filtered and concentrated to yield the crude intermediate that was used without further purification or if necessary that was purified by preparative TLC.

7 morpholino 5 pyrimidin 5 yl thiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidine 2 carbaldehyde 92 or pyridinylfuropyrimidine 94 was dissolved to a 0.2 M concentration in dichloroethane. To this solution was added 1.5 to 2.0 equivalents of an amine R R NH 10 equivalents of trimethylorthoformate and 1 equivalent of acetic acid. The mixture was allowed to stir for 2 6 hours prior to adding 1.5 equivalents of sodium triacetoxyborohydride. Following 12 to 16 hours of stirring the reaction was poured into saturated sodium bicarbonate and extracted several times with ethyl acetate. This intermediate was either purified on silica gel or used crude in the next reaction.

7 morpholino 5 pyrimidin 5 yl thiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidine 2 sulfonyl chloride 96 was suspended in 1 mL of methylene chloride before addition of 2 eq. of amine R R NH and 3 eq. of DIPEA. The reactions were monitored by TLC until complete. The crude reaction mixtures were diluted with ethyl acetate extracted with saturated ammonium chloride and back extracted once with ethyl acetate. The organic layers were combined and concentrated to dryness. The crude sulfonamide intermediates 97 were used directly in the subsequent Suzuki couplings

To a suspension of 4 5 pyrimidin 5 yl thiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidin 7 yl morpholine 6.85 mmol 1.0 eq. in dry THF 40 mL at 78 C. was added a 2.5 M solution of n butyllithium nBuLi in hexane 1.2 eq. . After stirring for 1 h dry DMF 1.5 eq. was added. The reaction mixture was stirred for 1 h at 78 C. and then warmed slowly to room temperature. After a further 2 h at room temperature the reaction mixture was poured onto ice water yielding a precipitate that was collected by filtration and air dried to yield the title compound.

In the methods of preparing the compounds of this invention it may be advantageous to separate reaction products from one another and or from starting materials. The desired products of each step or series of steps are separated and or purified hereinafter separated to the desired degree of homogeneity by the techniques common in the art. Typically such separations involve multiphase extraction crystallization from a solvent or solvent mixture distillation sublimation or chromatography. Chromatography can involve any number of methods including for example reverse phase and normal phase size exclusion ion exchange high medium and low pressure liquid chromatography methods and apparatus small scale analytical simulated moving bed SMB and preparative thin or thick layer chromatography as well as techniques of small scale thin layer and flash chromatography.

Another class of separation methods involves treatment of a mixture with a reagent selected to bind to or render otherwise separable a desired product unreacted starting material reaction by product or the like. Such reagents include adsorbents or absorbents such as activated carbon molecular sieves ion exchange media or the like. Alternatively the reagents can be acids in the case of a basic material bases in the case of an acidic material binding reagents such as antibodies binding proteins selective chelators such as crown ethers liquid liquid ion extraction reagents LIX or the like.

Selection of appropriate methods of separation depends on the nature of the materials involved. For example boiling point and molecular weight in distillation and sublimation presence or absence of polar functional groups in chromatography stability of materials in acidic and basic media in multiphase extraction and the like. One skilled in the art will apply techniques most likely to achieve the desired separation.

Diastereomeric mixtures can be separated into their individual diastereomers on the basis of their physical chemical differences by methods well known to those skilled in the art such as by chromatography and or fractional crystallization. Enantiomers can be separated by converting the enantiomeric mixture into a diastereomeric mixture by reaction with an appropriate optically active compound e.g. chiral auxiliary such as a chiral alcohol or Mosher s acid chloride separating the diastereomers and converting e.g. hydrolyzing the individual diastereoisomers to the corresponding pure enantiomers. Also some of the compounds of the present invention may be atropisomers e.g. substituted biaryls and are considered as part of this invention. Enantiomers can also be separated by use of a chiral HPLC column.

A single stereoisomer e.g. an enantiomer substantially free of its stereoisomer may be obtained by resolution of the racemic mixture using a method such as formation of diastereomers using optically active resolving agents Eliel E. and Wilen S. Stereochemistry of Organic Compounds John Wiley Sons Inc. New York 1994 Lochmuller C. H. 1975 J. Chromatogr. 113 3 283 302 . Racemic mixtures of chiral compounds of the invention can be separated and isolated by any suitable method including 1 formation of ionic diastereomeric salts with chiral compounds and separation by fractional crystallization or other methods 2 formation of diastereomeric compounds with chiral derivatizing reagents separation of the diastereomers and conversion to the pure stereoisomers and 3 separation of the substantially pure or enriched stereoisomers directly under chiral conditions. See Drug Stereochemistry Analytical Methods and Pharmacology Irving W. Wainer Ed. Marcel Dekker Inc. New York 1993 .

Under method 1 diastereomeric salts can be formed by reaction of enantiomerically pure chiral bases such as brucine quinine ephedrine strychnine methyl phenylethylamine amphetamine and the like with asymmetric compounds bearing acidic functionality such as carboxylic acid and sulfonic acid. The diastereomeric salts may be induced to separate by fractional crystallization or ionic chromatography. For separation of the optical isomers of amino compounds addition of chiral carboxylic or sulfonic acids such as camphorsulfonic acid tartaric acid mandelic acid or lactic acid can result in formation of the diastereomeric salts.

Alternatively by method 2 the substrate to be resolved is reacted with one enantiomer of a chiral compound to form a diastereomeric pair E. and Wilen S. Stereochemistry of Organic Compounds John Wiley Sons Inc. 1994 p. 322 . Diastereomeric compounds can be formed by reacting asymmetric compounds with enantiomerically pure chiral derivatizing reagents such as menthyl derivatives followed by separation of the diastereomers and hydrolysis to yield the pure or enriched enantiomer. A method of determining optical purity involves making chiral esters such as a menthyl ester e.g. menthyl chloroformate in the presence of base or Mosher ester methoxy trifluoromethyl phenyl acetate Jacob III. J. Org. Chem. 1982 47 4165 of the racemic mixture and analyzing the H NMR spectrum for the presence of the two atropisomeric enantiomers or diastereomers. Stable diastereomers of atropisomeric compounds can be separated and isolated by normal and reverse phase chromatography following methods for separation of atropisomeric naphthyl isoquinolines WO96 15111 . By method 3 a racemic mixture of two enantiomers can be separated by chromatography using a chiral stationary phase Chiral Liquid Chromatography 1989 W. J. Lough Ed. Chapman and Hall New York Okamoto J. Chromatogr. 1990 513 375 378 . Enriched or purified enantiomers can be distinguished by methods used to distinguish other chiral molecules with asymmetric carbon atoms such as optical rotation and circular dichroism.

The compounds of the invention may be administered by any route appropriate to the condition to be treated. Suitable routes include oral parenteral including subcutaneous intramuscular intravenous intraarterial intradermal intrathecal and epidural transdermal rectal nasal topical including buccal and sublingual vaginal intraperitoneal intrapulmonary and intranasal. For local immunosuppressive treatment the compounds may be administered by intralesional administration including perfusing or otherwise contacting the graft with the inhibitor before transplantation. It will be appreciated that the preferred route may vary with for example the condition of the recipient. Where the compound is administered orally it may be formulated as a pill capsule tablet etc. with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient. Where the compound is administered parenterally it may be formulated with a pharmaceutically acceptable parenteral vehicle and in a unit dosage injectable form as detailed below.

A dose to treat human patients may range from about 10 mg to about 1000 mg of formula Ia d compound. A typical dose may be about 100 mg to about 300 mg of the compound. A dose may be administered once a day QID twice per day BID or more frequently depending on the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties including absorption distribution metabolism and excretion of the particular compound. In addition toxicity factors may influence the dosage and administration regimen. When administered orally the pill capsule or tablet may be ingested daily or less frequently for a specified period of time. The regimen may be repeated for a number of cycles of therapy.

Compounds of the present invention are useful for treating diseases conditions and or disorders including but not limited to those characterized by over expression of lipid kinases e.g. PI3 kinase. Accordingly another aspect of this invention includes methods of treating or preventing diseases or conditions that can be treated or prevented by inhibiting lipid kinases including PI3. In one embodiment the method comprises administering to a mammal in need thereof a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula Ia d or a stereoisomer geometric isomer tautomer solvate metabolite N oxide derivative or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof.

Diseases and conditions treatable according to the methods of this invention include but are not limited to cancer stroke diabetes hepatomegaly cardiovascular disease Alzheimer s disease cystic fibrosis autoimmune diseases atherosclerosis restenosis psoriasis allergic disorders inflammation neurological disorders a hormone related disease conditions associated with organ transplantation immunodeficiency disorders destructive bone disorders proliferative disorders infectious diseases conditions associated with cell death thrombin induced platelet aggregation chronic myelogenous leukemia CML liver disease pathologic immune conditions involving T cell activation and CNS disorders in a patient. In one embodiment a human patient is treated with a compound of formula Ia d and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier adjuvant or vehicle wherein said compound of formula Ia d is present in an amount to detectably inhibit PB kinase activity.

Cancers which can be treated according to the methods of this invention include but are not limited to breast ovary cervix prostate testis genitourinary tract esophagus larynx glioblastoma neuroblastoma stomach skin keratoacanthoma lung epidermoid carcinoma large cell carcinoma non small cell lung carcinoma NSCLC small cell carcinoma lung adenocarcinoma bone colon adenoma pancreas adenocarcinoma thyroid follicular carcinoma undifferentiated carcinoma papillary carcinoma seminoma melanoma sarcoma bladder carcinoma liver carcinoma and biliary passages kidney carcinoma myeloid disorders lymphoid disorders hairy cells buccal cavity and pharynx oral lip tongue mouth pharynx small intestine colon rectum large intestine rectum brain and central nervous system Hodgkin s and leukemia.

Cardiovascular diseases which can be treated according to the methods of this invention include but are not limited to restenosis cardiomegaly atherosclerosis myocardial infarction and congestive heart failure.

Neurodegenerative disease which can be treated according to the methods of this invention include but are not limited to Alzheimer s disease Parkinson s disease amyotrophic lateral sclerosis Huntington s disease and cerebral ischemia and neurodegenerative disease caused by traumatic injury glutamate neurotoxicity and hypoxia.

Inflammatory diseases which can be treated according to the methods of this invention include but are not limited to rheumatoid arthritis psoriasis contact dermatitis and delayed hypersensitivity reactions.

Another aspect of this invention provides a compound of this invention for use in the treatment of the diseases or conditions described herein in a mammal for example a human suffering from such disease or condition. Also provided is the use of a compound of this invention in the preparation of a medicament for the treatment of the diseases and conditions described herein in a warm blooded animal such as a mammal for example a human suffering from such disorder.

In order to use a compound of this invention for the therapeutic treatment including prophylactic treatment of mammals including humans it is normally formulated in accordance with standard pharmaceutical practice as a pharmaceutical composition. According to this aspect of the invention there is provided a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of this invention in association with a pharmaceutically acceptable diluent or carrier.

A typical formulation is prepared by mixing a compound of the present invention and a carrier diluent or excipient. Suitable carriers diluents and excipients are well known to those skilled in the art and include materials such as carbohydrates waxes water soluble and or swellable polymers hydrophilic or hydrophobic materials gelatin oils solvents water and the like. The particular carrier diluent or excipient used will depend upon the means and purpose for which the compound of the present invention is being applied. Solvents are generally selected based on solvents recognized by persons skilled in the art as safe GRAS to be administered to a mammal. In general safe solvents are nontoxic aqueous solvents such as water and other non toxic solvents that are soluble or miscible in water. Suitable aqueous solvents include water ethanol propylene glycol polyethylene glycols e.g. PEG 400 PEG 300 etc. and mixtures thereof. The formulations may also include one or more buffers stabilizing agents surfactants wetting agents lubricating agents emulsifiers suspending agents preservatives antioxidants opaquing agents glidants processing aids colorants sweeteners perfuming agents flavoring agents and other known additives to provide an elegant presentation of the drug i.e. a compound of the present invention or pharmaceutical composition thereof or aid in the manufacturing of the pharmaceutical product i.e. medicament .

The formulations may be prepared using conventional dissolution and mixing procedures. For example the bulk drug substance i.e. compound of the present invention or stabilized form of the compound e.g. complex with a cyclodextrin derivative or other known complexation agent is dissolved in a suitable solvent in the presence of one or more of the excipients described above. The compound of the present invention is typically formulated into pharmaceutical dosage forms to provide an easily controllable dosage of the drug and to enable patient compliance with the prescribed regimen.

The pharmaceutical composition or formulation for application may be packaged in a variety of ways depending upon the method used for administering the drug. Generally an article for distribution includes a container having deposited therein the pharmaceutical formulation in an appropriate form. Suitable containers are well known to those skilled in the art and include materials such as bottles plastic and glass sachets ampoules plastic bags metal cylinders and the like. The container may also include a tamper proof assemblage to prevent indiscreet access to the contents of the package. In addition the container has deposited thereon a label that describes the contents of the container. The label may also include appropriate warnings.

Pharmaceutical formulations of the compounds of the present invention may be prepared for various routes and types of administration. For example a compound of formula Ia d having the desired degree of purity may optionally be mixed with pharmaceutically acceptable diluents carriers excipients or stabilizers Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 1980 16th edition Osol A. Ed. in the form of a lyophilized formulation milled powder or an aqueous solution formulation may be conducted by mixing at ambient temperature at the appropriate pH and at the desired degree of purity with physiologically acceptable carriers i.e. carriers that are non toxic to recipients at the dosages and concentrations employed. The pH of the formulation depends mainly on the particular use and the concentration of compound but may range from about 3 to about 8. Formulation in an acetate buffer at pH 5 is a suitable embodiment.

The compound of this invention for use herein is preferably sterile. In particular formulations to be used for in vivo administration must be sterile. Such sterilization is readily accomplished by filtration through sterile filtration membranes.

The compound ordinarily can be stored as a solid composition a lyophilized formulation or as an aqueous solution.

The pharmaceutical compositions of the invention will be formulated dosed and administered in a fashion i.e. amounts concentrations schedules course vehicles and route of administration consistent with good medical practice. Factors for consideration in this context include the particular disorder being treated the particular mammal being treated the clinical condition of the individual patient the cause of the disorder the site of delivery of the agent the method of administration the scheduling of administration and other factors known to medical practitioners. The therapeutically effective amount of the compound to be administered will be governed by such considerations and is the minimum amount necessary to prevent ameliorate or treat the coagulation factor mediated disorder. Such amount is preferably below the amount that is toxic to the host or renders the host significantly more susceptible to bleeding.

As a general proposition the initial pharmaceutically effective amount of the inhibitor administered parenterally per dose will be in the range of about 0.01 100 mg kg namely about 0.1 to 20 mg kg of patient body weight per day with the typical initial range of compound used being 0.3 to 15 mg kg day.

Acceptable diluents carriers excipients and stabilizers are nontoxic to recipients at the dosages and concentrations employed and include buffers such as phosphate citrate and other organic acids antioxidants including ascorbic acid and methionine preservatives such as octadecyldimethylbenzyl ammonium chloride hexamethonium chloride benzalkonium chloride benzethonium chloride phenol butyl or benzyl alcohol alkyl parabens such as methyl or propyl paraben catechol resorcinol cyclohexanol 3 pentanol and m cresol low molecular weight less than about 10 residues polypeptides proteins such as serum albumin gelatin or immunoglobulins hydrophilic polymers such as polyvinylpyrrolidone amino acids such as glycine glutamine asparagine histidine arginine or lysine monosaccharides disaccharides and other carbohydrates including glucose mannose or dextrins chelating agents such as EDTA sugars such as sucrose mannitol trehalose or sorbitol salt forming counter ions such as sodium metal complexes e.g. Zn protein complexes and or non ionic surfactants such as TWEEN PLURONICS or polyethylene glycol PEG . The active pharmaceutical ingredients may also be entrapped in microcapsules prepared for example by coacervation techniques or by interfacial polymerization for example hydroxymethylcellulose or gelatin microcapsules and poly methylmethacylate microcapsules respectively in colloidal drug delivery systems for example liposomes albumin microspheres microemulsions nano particles and nanocapsules or in macroemulsions. Such techniques are disclosed in Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 16th edition Osol A. Ed. 1980 .

Sustained release preparations of compounds of formula Ia d may be prepared. Suitable examples of sustained release preparations include semipermeable matrices of solid hydrophobic polymers containing a compound of formula Ia d which matrices are in the form of shaped articles e.g. films or microcapsules. Examples of sustained release matrices include polyesters hydrogels for example poly 2 hydroxyethyl methacrylate or polyvinyl alcohol polylactides U.S. Pat. No. 3 773 919 copolymers of L glutamic acid and gamma ethyl L glutamate non degradable ethylene vinyl acetate degradable lactic acid glycolic acid copolymers such as the LUPRON DEPOT injectable microspheres composed of lactic acid glycolic acid copolymer and leuprolide acetate and poly D 3 hydroxybutyric acid.

The formulations include those suitable for the administration routes detailed herein. The formulations may conveniently be presented in unit dosage form and may be prepared by any of the methods well known in the art of pharmacy. Techniques and formulations generally are found in Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences Mack Publishing Co. Easton Pa. . Such methods include the step of bringing into association the active ingredient with the carrier which constitutes one or more accessory ingredients. In general the formulations are prepared by uniformly and intimately bringing into association the active ingredient with liquid carriers or finely divided solid carriers or both and then if necessary shaping the product.

Formulations of a compound of formula Ia d suitable for oral administration may be prepared as discrete units such as pills capsules cachets or tablets each containing a predetermined amount of a compound of formula Ia d.

Compressed tablets may be prepared by compressing in a suitable machine the active ingredient in a free flowing form such as a powder or granules optionally mixed with a binder lubricant inert diluent preservative surface active or dispersing agent. Molded tablets may be made by molding in a suitable machine a mixture of the powdered active ingredient moistened with an inert liquid diluent. The tablets may optionally be coated or scored and optionally are formulated so as to provide slow or controlled release of the active ingredient therefrom.

Tablets troches lozenges aqueous or oil suspensions dispersible powders or granules emulsions hard or soft capsules e.g. gelatin capsules syrups or elixirs may be prepared for oral use formulations of compounds of formula Ia d intended for oral use may be prepared according to any method known to the art for the manufacture of pharmaceutical compositions and such compositions may contain one or more agents including sweetening agents flavoring agents coloring agents and preserving agents in order to provide a palatable preparation. Tablets containing the active ingredient in admixture with non toxic pharmaceutically acceptable excipient which are suitable for manufacture of tablets are acceptable. These excipients may be for example inert diluents such as calcium or sodium carbonate lactose calcium or sodium phosphate granulating and disintegrating agents such as maize starch or alginic acid binding agents such as starch gelatin or acacia and lubricating agents such as magnesium stearate stearic acid or talc. Tablets may be uncoated or may be coated by known techniques including microencapsulation to delay disintegration and adsorption in the gastrointestinal tract and thereby provide a sustained action over a longer period. For example a time delay material such as glyceryl monostearate or glyceryl distearate alone or with a wax may be employed.

For treatment of the eye or other external tissues e.g. mouth and skin the formulations are preferably applied as a topical ointment or cream containing the active ingredient s in an amount of for example 0.075 to 20 w w. When formulated in an ointment the active ingredients may be employed with either a paraffinic or a water miscible ointment base. Alternatively the active ingredients may be formulated in a cream with an oil in water cream base.

If desired the aqueous phase of the cream base may include a polyhydric alcohol i.e. an alcohol having two or more hydroxyl groups such as propylene glycol butane 1 3 diol mannitol sorbitol glycerol and polyethylene glycol including PEG 400 and mixtures thereof. The topical formulations may desirably include a compound which enhances absorption or penetration of the active ingredient through the skin or other affected areas. Examples of such dermal penetration enhancers include dimethyl sulfoxide and related analogs.

The oily phase of the emulsions of this invention may be constituted from known ingredients in a known manner. While the phase may comprise merely an emulsifier it desirably comprises a mixture of at least one emulsifier with a fat or an oil or with both a fat and an oil. Preferably a hydrophilic emulsifier is included together with a lipophilic emulsifier which acts as a stabilizer. It is also preferred to include both an oil and a fat. Together the emulsifier s with or without stabilizer s make up the so called emulsifying wax and the wax together with the oil and fat make up the so called emulsifying ointment base which forms the oily dispersed phase of the cream formulations. Emulsifiers and emulsion stabilizers suitable for use in the formulation of the invention include Tween 60 Span 80 cetostearyl alcohol benzyl alcohol myristyl alcohol glyceryl mono stearate and sodium lauryl sulfate.

Aqueous suspensions of formula Ia d compounds contain the active materials in admixture with excipients suitable for the manufacture of aqueous suspensions. Such excipients include a suspending agent such as sodium carboxymethylcellulose croscarmellose povidone methylcellulose hydroxypropyl methylcellulose sodium alginate polyvinylpyrrolidone gum tragacanth and gum acacia and dispersing or wetting agents such as a naturally occurring phosphatide e.g. lecithin a condensation product of an alkylene oxide with a fatty acid e.g. polyoxyethylene stearate a condensation product of ethylene oxide with a long chain aliphatic alcohol e.g. heptadecaethyleneoxycetanol a condensation product of ethylene oxide with a partial ester derived from a fatty acid and a hexitol anhydride e.g. polyoxyethylene sorbitan monooleate . The aqueous suspension may also contain one or more preservatives such as ethyl or n propyl p hydroxybenzoate one or more coloring agents one or more flavoring agents and one or more sweetening agents such as sucrose or saccharin.

The pharmaceutical compositions of compounds of the invention may be in the form of a sterile injectable preparation such as a sterile injectable aqueous or oleaginous suspension. This suspension may be formulated according to the known art using those suitable dispersing or wetting agents and suspending agents which have been mentioned above. The sterile injectable preparation may also be a sterile injectable solution or suspension in a non toxic parenterally acceptable diluent or solvent such as a solution in 1 3 butanediol or prepared as a lyophilized powder. Among the acceptable vehicles and solvents that may be employed are water Ringer s solution and isotonic sodium chloride solution. In addition sterile fixed oils may conventionally be employed as a solvent or suspending medium. For this purpose any bland fixed oil may be employed including synthetic mono or diglycerides. In addition fatty acids such as oleic acid may likewise be used in the preparation of injectables.

The amount of active ingredient that may be combined with the carrier material to produce a single dosage form will vary depending upon the host treated and the particular mode of administration. For example a time release formulation intended for oral administration to humans may contain approximately 1 to 1000 mg of active material compounded with an appropriate and convenient amount of carrier material which may vary from about 5 to about 95 of the total compositions weight weight . The pharmaceutical composition can be prepared to provide easily measurable amounts for administration. For example an aqueous solution intended for intravenous infusion may contain from about 3 to 500 g of the active ingredient per milliliter of solution in order that infusion of a suitable volume at a rate of about 30 niL hr can occur.

Formulations suitable for parenteral administration include aqueous and nonaqueous sterile injection solutions which may contain anti oxidants buffers bacteriostats and solutes which render the formulation isotonic with the blood of the intended recipient and aqueous and non aqueous sterile suspensions which may include suspending agents and thickening agents.

Formulations suitable for topical administration to the eye also include eye drops wherein the active ingredient is dissolved or suspended in a suitable carrier especially an aqueous solvent for the active ingredient. The active ingredient is preferably present in such formulations in a concentration of about 0.5 to 20 w w for example about 0.5 to 10 w w for example about 1.5 w w.

Formulations suitable for topical administration in the mouth include lozenges comprising the active ingredient in a flavored basis usually sucrose and acacia or tragacanth pastilles comprising the active ingredient in an inert basis such as gelatin and glycerin or sucrose and acacia and mouthwashes comprising the active ingredient in a suitable liquid carrier.

Formulations for rectal administration may be presented as a suppository with a suitable base comprising for example cocoa butter or a salicylate. 00180 formulations suitable for intrapulmonary or nasal administration have a particle size for example in the range of 0.1 to 500 microns including particle sizes in a range between 0.1 and 500 microns in increments microns such as 0.5 1 30 microns 35 microns etc. which is administered by rapid inhalation through the nasal passage or by inhalation through the mouth so as to reach the alveolar sacs. Suitable formulations include aqueous or oily solutions of the active ingredient. Formulations suitable for aerosol or dry powder administration may be prepared according to conventional methods and may be delivered with other therapeutic agents such as compounds heretofore used in the treatment or prophylaxis disorders as described below.

Formulations suitable for vaginal administration may be presented as pessaries tampons creams gels pastes foams or spray formulations containing in addition to the active ingredient such carriers as are known in the art to be appropriate.

The formulations may be packaged in unit dose or multi dose containers for example sealed ampoules and vials and may be stored in a freeze dried lyophilized condition requiring only the addition of the sterile liquid carrier for example water for injection immediately prior to use. Extemporaneous injection solutions and suspensions are prepared from sterile powders granules and tablets of the kind previously described. Preferred unit dosage formulations are those containing a daily dose or unit daily sub dose as herein above recited or an appropriate fraction thereof of the active ingredient.

The invention further provides veterinary compositions comprising at least one active ingredient as above defined together with a veterinary carrier therefore. Veterinary carriers are materials useful for the purpose of administering the composition and may be solid liquid or gaseous materials which are otherwise inert or acceptable in the veterinary art and are compatible with the active ingredient. These veterinary compositions may be administered parenterally orally or by any other desired route.

The compounds of the invention may be employed alone or in combination with other therapeutic agents for the treatment of a disease or disorder described herein such as a hyperproliferative disorder e.g. cancer . In certain embodiments a compound of formula Ia d is combined in a pharmaceutical combination formulation or dosing regimen as combination therapy with a second compound that has anti hyperproliferative properties or that is useful for treating a hyperproliferative disorder e.g. cancer . The second compound of the pharmaceutical combination formulation or dosing regimen preferably has complementary activities to the compound of formula Ia d such that they do not adversely affect each other. Such compounds are suitably present in combination in amounts that are effective for the purpose intended. In one embodiment a composition of this invention comprises a compound of formula Ia d or a stereoisomer geometric isomer tautomer solvate metabolite a N oxide derivative or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof in combination with a chemotherapeutic agent such as described herein.

The combination therapy may be administered as a simultaneous or sequential regimen. When administered sequentially the combination may be administered in two or more administrations. The combined administration includes coadministration using separate formulations or a single pharmaceutical formulation and consecutive administration in either order wherein preferably there is a time period while both or all active agents simultaneously exert their biological activities.

Suitable dosages for any of the above coadministered agents are those presently used and may be lowered due to the combined action synergy of the newly identified agent and other chemotherapeutic agents or treatments.

The combination therapy may provide synergy and prove synergistic i.e. the effect achieved when the active ingredients used together is greater than the sum of the effects that results from using the compounds separately. A synergistic effect may be attained when the active ingredients are 1 co formulated and administered or delivered simultaneously in a combined unit dosage formulation 2 delivered by alternation or in parallel as separate formulations or 3 by some other regimen. When delivered in alternation therapy a synergistic effect may be attained when the compounds are administered or delivered sequentially e.g. by different injections in separate syringes separate pills or capsules or separate infusions. In general during alternation therapy an effective dosage of each active ingredient is administered sequentially i.e. serially whereas in combination therapy effective dosages of two or more active ingredients are administered together.

In a particular embodiment of anti cancer therapy a compound of formula Ia d or a stereoisomer geometric isomer tautomer solvate metabolite N oxide derivative or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof may be combined with other chemotherapeutic hormonal or antibody agents such as those described herein as well as combined with surgical therapy and radiotherapy. Combination therapies according to the present invention thus comprise the administration of at least one compound of formula Ia d or a stereoisomer geometric isomer tautomer solvate metabolite N oxide derivative or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof and the use of at least one other cancer treatment method. The amounts of the compound s of formula Ia d and the other pharmaceutically active chemotherapeutic agent s and the relative timings of administration will be selected in order to achieve the desired combined therapeutic effect.

Also falling within the scope of this invention are the in vivo metabolic products of formulas I and Ia to Ii described herein. Such products may result for example from the oxidation reduction hydrolysis amidation deamidation esterification deesterification enzymatic cleavage and the like of the administered compound. Accordingly the invention includes metabolites of compounds of formulas I and Ia to Ii including compounds produced by a process comprising contacting a compound of this invention with a mammal for a period of time sufficient to yield a metabolic product thereof.

Metabolite products typically are identified by preparing a radiolabeled e.g. C or H isotope of a compound of the invention administering it parenterally in a detectable dose e.g. greater than about 0.5 mg kg to an animal such as rat mouse guinea pig monkey or to man allowing sufficient time for metabolism to occur typically about 30 seconds to 30 hours and isolating its conversion products from the urine blood or other biological samples. These products are easily isolated since they are labeled others are isolated by the use of antibodies capable of binding epitopes surviving in the metabolite . The metabolite structures are determined in conventional fashion e.g. by MS LC MS or NMR analysis. In general analysis of metabolites is done in the same way as conventional drug metabolism studies well known to those skilled in the art. The metabolite products so long as they are not otherwise found in vivo are useful in diagnostic assays for therapeutic dosing of the compounds of the invention.

In addition to compounds of the invention the invention also includes pharmaceutically acceptable prodrugs of such compounds. Prodrugs include compounds wherein an amino acid residue or a polypeptide chain of two or more e.g. two three or four amino acid residues is covalently joined through an amide or ester bond to a free amino hydroxy or carboxylic acid group of a compound of the present invention. The amino acid residues include but are not limited to the 20 naturally occurring amino acids commonly designated by three letter symbols and also includes phosphoserine phosphothreonine phosphotyrosine 4 hydroxyproline hydroxylysine demosine isodemosine gamma carboxyglutamate hippuric acid octahydroindole 2 carboxylic acid statine 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinoline 3 carboxylic acid penicillamine ornithine 3 methylhistidine norvaline beta alanine gamma aminobutyric acid citrulline homocysteine homoserine methyl alanine para benzoylphenylalanine phenylglycine propargylglycine sarcosine methionine sulfone and tert butylglycine.

Additional types of prodrugs are also encompassed. For instance a free carboxyl group of a compound of the invention can be derivatized as an amide or alkyl ester. As another example compounds of this invention comprising free hydroxy groups may be derivatized as prodrugs by converting the hydroxy group into a group such as but not limited to a phosphate ester hemisuccinate dimethylaminoacetate or phosphoryloxymethyloxycarbonyl group as outlined in Advanced Drug Delivery Reviews 1996 19 115. Carbamate prodrugs of hydroxy and amino groups are also included as are carbonate prodrugs sulfonate esters and sulfate esters of hydroxy groups. Derivatization of hydroxy groups as acyloxy methyl and acyloxy ethyl ethers wherein the acyl group may be an alkyl ester optionally substituted with groups including but not limited to ether amine and carboxylic acid functionalities or where the acyl group is an amino acid ester as described above are also encompassed. Prodrugs of this type are described in J. Med. Chem. 1996 39 10. More specific examples include replacement of the hydrogen atom of the alcohol group with a group such as C C alkanoyloxymethyl 1 Ci C alkanoyloxy ethyl 1 methyl 1 C C alkanoyloxy ethyl Ci C alkoxycarbonyloxymethyl N C C alkoxycarbonylaminomethyl succinoyl CrC alkanoyl amino C C alkanoyl arylacyl and aminoacyl or aminoacyl aminoacyl where each aminoacyl group is independently selected from the naturally occurring L amino acids P O OH P O O C C alkyl or glycosyl the radical resulting from the removal of a hydroxyl group of the hemiacetal form of a carbohydrate . 00196 For additional examples of prodrug derivatives see for example a Design of Prodrugs edited by H. Bundgaard Elsevier 1985 and Methods in Enzymology Vol. 42 p. 309 396 edited by K. Widder et al. Academic Press 1985 b A Textbook of Drug Design and Development edited by Krogsgaard Larsen and H. Bundgaard Chapter 5 Design and Application of Prodrugs by H. Bundgaard p. 113 191 1991 c H. Bundgaard Advanced Drug Delivery Reviews 8 1 38 1992 d H. Bundgaard et al. Journal of Pharmaceutical Sciences 77 285 1988 and e N. Kakeya et al. Chem. Pharm. Bull. 32 692 1984 each of which is specifically incorporated herein by reference.

In another embodiment of the invention an article of manufacture or kit containing materials useful for the treatment of the diseases and disorders described above is provided. In one embodiment the kit comprises a container comprising a compound of formula Ia d or a stereoisomer geometric isomer tautomer solvate metabolite N oxide derivative or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof. The kit may further comprise a label or package insert on or associated with the container. The term package insert is used to refer to instructions customarily included in commercial packages of therapeutic products that contain information about the indications usage dosage administration contraindications and or warnings concerning the use of such therapeutic products. Suitable containers include for example bottles vials syringes blister pack etc. The container may be formed from a variety of materials such as glass or plastic. The container may hold a compound of formula Ia d or a formulation thereof which is effective for treating the condition and may have a sterile access port for example the container may be an intravenous solution bag or a vial having a stopper pierceable by a hypodermic injection needle . At least one active agent in the composition is a compound of formula Ia d. The label or package insert indicates that

the composition is used for treating the condition of choice such as cancer. In addition the label or package insert may indicate that the patient to be treated is one having a disorder such as a hyperproliferative disorder neurodegeneration cardiac hypertrophy pain migraine or a neurotraumatic disease or event. In one embodiment the label or package inserts indicates that the composition comprising a compound of formula Ia d can be used to treat a disorder resulting from abnormal cell growth. The label or package insert may also indicate that the composition can be used to treat other disorders. Alternatively or additionally the article of manufacture may further comprise a second container comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable buffer such as bacteriostatic water for injection BWFI phosphate buffered saline Ringer s solution and dextrose solution. It may further include other materials desirable from a commercial and user standpoint including other buffers diluents filters needles and syringes.

The kit may further comprise directions for the administration of the compound of formula Ia d and if present the second pharmaceutical formulation. For example if the kit comprises a first composition comprising a compound of formula Ia d and a second pharmaceutical formulation the kit may further comprise directions for the simultaneous sequential or separate administration of the first and second pharmaceutical compositions to a patient in need thereof.

In another embodiment the kits are suitable for the delivery of solid oral forms of a compound of formula Ia d such as tablets or capsules. Such a kit preferably includes a number of unit dosages. Such kits can include a card having the dosages oriented in the order of their intended use. An example of such a kit is a blister pack . Blister packs are well known in the packaging industry and are widely used for packaging pharmaceutical unit dosage forms. If desired a memory aid can be provided for example in the form of numbers letters or other markings or with a calendar insert designating the days in the treatment schedule in which the dosages can be administered.

According to one embodiment a kit may comprise a a first container with a compound of formula Ia d contained therein and optionally b a second container with a second pharmaceutical formulation contained therein wherein the second pharmaceutical formulation comprises a second compound with anti hyperproliferative activity. Alternatively or additionally the kit may further comprise a third container comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable buffer such as bacteriostatic water for injection BWFI phosphate buffered saline Ringer s solution and dextrose solution. It may further include other materials desirable from a commercial and user standpoint including other buffers diluents filters needles and syringes.

In certain other embodiments wherein the kit comprises a composition of formula Ia d and a second therapeutic agent the kit may comprise a container for containing the separate compositions such as a divided bottle or a divided foil packet however the separate compositions may also be contained within a single undivided container. Typically the kit comprises directions for the administration of the separate components. The kit form is particularly advantageous when the separate components are preferably administered in different dosage forms e.g. oral and parenteral are administered at different dosage intervals or when titration of the individual components of the combination is desired by the prescribing physician.

Determination of the potential to target PI3K PI3K related kinases PIKK of a compound of formula I is possible by a number of direct and indirect detection methods. Certain exemplary compounds described herein were assayed for their phospho PKB blocking activity and their in vitro activity against tumor cells. The range of phospho PKB activities was less than 1 nM nanomolar to about 10 M micromolar . Other exemplary compounds of the invention had phospho PKB blocking activity ICvalues less than 10 nM. Certain compounds of the invention had tumor cell based activity ICvalues less than 100 nM.

The cytotoxic or cytostatic activity of formula I exemplary compounds was measured by establishing a proliferating mammalian tumor cell lines in a cell culture medium adding a formula I compound culturing the cells for a period from about 6 hours to about 3 days and measuring cell viability. Cell based assays were used to measure viability i.e. proliferation IC cytotoxicity EC and induction of apoptosis caspase activation .

The in vitro potency of formula I compounds was measured by the in cell Western assay designed in laboratories at University of Basel. This assay method was conducted in microtiter plate formats making it amenable to high throughput screening HTS . Inhibitors were added to the medium and incubated. Antibodies diluted in PBS T against pPKB Ser473 Cell Signalling and PKB gift from E. Hirsch or pS6 Ser 235 236 Cell Signalling were incubated overnight and then secondary fluorescently labelled antibodies LI COR were applied and plates were scanned on an Odyssey reader to detect pPKB PKB ratios.

The invention will be now described in a more detailed fashion with regard to specific embodiments and examples of the invention which have an exemplary but not a limitative character.

Table 1 gives the structures and the corresponding IUPAC names using ChemDraw Ultra Version 11.0.1 as well as lower and upper software versions thereof CambridgeSoft Corp. Cambridge Mass. of exemplary compounds Nos. 1 259 of formula Ia Ib or Id .

Table 2 gives the structures and the corresponding IUPAC names using ChemDraw Ultra Version 11.0.1 as well as lower and upper software versions thereof CambridgeSoft Corp. Cambridge Mass. of exemplary compounds Nos. 260 385 of formula Ic .

Table 3 gives the structures and the corresponding IUPAC names using ChemDraw Ultra Version 11.0.1 as well as lower and upper software versions thereof CambridgeSoft Corp. Cambridge Mass. of exemplary compounds Nos. 386 473 of formula If or Ig .

Table 4 gives the structures and the corresponding IUPAC names using ChemDraw Ultra Version 11.0.1 as well as lower and upper software versions thereof CambridgeSoft Corp. Cambridge Mass. of exemplary compounds Nos. 474 537 of formula Ih or Ii .

Table 5 gives the structures and the corresponding IUPAC names using ChemDraw Ultra Version 11.0.1 as well as lower and upper software versions thereof CambridgeSoft Corp. Cambridge Mass. of exemplary compounds Nos. 538 590 of formula Ie .

The chemical reactions described in the Examples may be readily adapted to prepare a number of other lipid kinase inhibitors of the invention and alternative methods for preparing the compounds of this invention are deemed to be within the scope of this invention. For example the synthesis of non exemplified compounds according to the invention may be successfully performed by modifications apparent to those skilled in the art e.g. by appropriately protecting interfering groups by utilizing other suitable reagents known in the art other than those described and or by making routine modifications of reaction conditions. Alternatively other reactions disclosed herein or known in the art will be recognized as having applicability for preparing other compounds of the invention.

In the Examples described below unless otherwise indicated all temperatures are set forth in degrees Celsius. Reagents were purchased from commercial suppliers such as Aldrich Chemical Company Fluorochem Acros Lancaster TCI or Maybridge and were used without further purification unless otherwise indicated. The reactions set forth below were done generally under a positive pressure of nitrogen or argon or with a drying tube unless otherwise stated in anhydrous solvents and the reaction flasks were typically fitted with rubber septa for the introduction of substrates and reagents via syringe. Glassware was oven dried and or heat dried. Column chromatography was conducted by using Merck silica gel. H NMR spectra were recorded on a Bruker instrument operating at 400 MHz 500 MHz and 600 MHz. H NMR spectra were obtained in deuterated CDCl Cl DMSO CHOD or d acetone solutions reported in ppm using chloroform as the reference standard 7.25 ppm or TMS o ppm . When peak multiplicities are reported the following abbreviations are used s singlet d doublet t triplet m multiplet br broadened dd doublet of doublets dt doublet of triplets . Coupling constants when given are reported in Hertz Hz .

Cyanuric chloride 1.00 g 5.42 mmol 1.0 eq. was dissolved in DMF 5 ml and morpholine 2.11 ml 24.4 mmol 4.5 eq. was slowly added into reaction mixture at 0 C. stirred for 20 minutes at the same temperature poured to water and colorless precipitate was filtered washed with hexane and diethyl ether and dried to provide the title compound as a colorless solid 860 mg 56 .

X Ray analysis the structure of 4 4 6 chloro 1 3 5 triazine 2 4 diyl dimorpholine was confirmed by x ray analysis.

Following the general procedure A 4 4 6 chloro 1 3 5 triazine 2 4 diyl dimorpholine was coupled with 2 aminopyridine 5 boronic acid pinacol ester with the reaction time of 15 h. Chromatography methylene chloride methanol 97 3 gave 69 of the title compound as a light yellow solid.

Following the general procedure A 4 4 6 chloro 1 3 5 triazine 2 4 diyl dimorpholine was coupled with 3 hydroxyphenylboronic acid pinacol ester with reaction time of 15 h. Chromatography hexane ethyl acetate 1 1 gave the title compound as a colorless solid.

Following the general procedure A 4 4 6 chloro 1 3 5 triazine 2 4 diyl dimorpholine was coupled with 4 aminophenylboronic acid pinacol ester with reaction time of 24 h. Chromatography hexane ethyl acetate 6 4 gave the title compound as a yellow solid.

Following the general procedure A 4 4 6 chloro 1 3 5 triazine 2 4 diyl dimorpholine was coupled with 3 aminophenylboronic acid pinacol ester with reaction time of 15 h. Column chromatography hexane ethyl acetate 1 1 gave the title compound as an colorless solid.

Following the general procedure A 4 4 6 chloro 1 3 5 triazine 2 4 diyl dimorpholine was coupled with 3 cyanophenylboronic acid pinacol ester with reaction time of 15 h. Column chromatography hexane ethyl acetate 1 1 gave 57 of the title compound as an colorless solid.

Following the general procedure A 4 4 6 chloro 1 3 5 triazine 2 4 diyl dimorpholine was coupled with 4 cyanophenylboronic acid pinacol ester with reaction time of 15 h. Chromatography hexane ethyl acetate 1 1 gave the 40 of the title compound as a colorless solid.

Following the general procedure A 4 4 6 chloro 1 3 5 triazine 2 4 diyl dimorpholine was coupled with 3 pyridineboronic acid pinacol ester with reaction time of 15 h. Chromatography hexane ethyl acetate 1 1 gave the title compound as a colorless solid.

Following the general procedure A 4 4 6 chloro 1 3 5 triazine 2 4 diyl dimorpholine was coupled with 6 morpholin 4 yl pyridine 3 boronic acid pinacol ester acid pinacol ester with reaction time of 15 h. Chromatography hexane ethyl acetate 1 1 gave the title compound as a colorless solid.

To a dry 25 ml flask was added 5 bromo 4 trifluoromethyl pyridin 2 amine 300 mg 1.24 mmol 1.0 eq. potassium acetate 366 mg 3.73 mmol 3.0 eq. bis pinacolato diboran 348 mg 1.37 mmol 1.1 eq. and dioxane 8 ml . Argon was bubbled through the solution for 15 minutes at which time 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene palladium II dichloride dichloromethane complex 50.8 mg 60 mol 0.05 eq. was added. The reaction was refluxed in a 115 C. oil bath for 8 hours under argon. After cooling to room temperature the dioxane was removed in vacuo. Ethyl acetate was added and the resulting slurry was sonicated and filtered. Additional ethyl acetate was used to wash the solid. The combined organic extracts were concentrated and the crude material was partially purified by silica gel chromatography hexane ethyl acetate 6 4 . Upon removal of solvent hexane was added decantation was done and resulting colorless solid was dried on a high vacuum for three days.

Following the general procedure A 4 4 6 chloro 1 3 5 triazine 2 4 diyl dimorpholine was coupled with 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 4 trifluoromethyl pyridin 2 amine with reaction time of 15 h. Chromatography dichlormethane methanol 97 3 gave the title compound as an colorless oil.

Following the general procedure A 4 4 6 chloro 1 3 5 triazine 2 4 diyl dimorpholine was coupled with 3 fluoropyridine 5 boronic acid pinacol ester with reaction time of 15 h. Chromatography hexane ethyl acetate 1 1 gave the 31 of the title compound.

Following the general procedure A 4 4 6 chloro 1 3 5 triazine 2 4 diyl dimorpholine was coupled with 2 aminopyrimidine 5 boronic acid pinacol ester with reaction time of 17 h. Chromatography hexane ethyl acetate 1 1 gave the title compound as a colorless solid.

Following the general procedure A 2 4 6 trichloro 1 3 5 triazine was coupled with 2 aminomethylpyridine with reaction time of 2 h. Purification by column chromatography gave the title compound.

Following the general procedure A 2 4 6 trichloro 1 3 5 triazine was coupled with 3 aminomethylpyridine with reaction time of 2 h. Purification by column chromatography gave the title compound.

Following the general procedure A 2 4 6 trichloro 1 3 5 triazine was coupled with 4 aminomethylpyridine with reaction time of 2 h. Purification by column chromatography gave the title compound.

Following the general procedure A 2 4 6 trichloro 1 3 5 triazine was coupled with 2 2 aminoethyl pyridine with reaction time of 2 h. Purification by column chromatography gave the title compound.

Following the general procedure A 2 4 6 trichloro 1 3 5 triazine was coupled with 3 2 aminoethyl pyridine with reaction time of 2 h. Purification by column chromatography gave the title compound.

Following the general procedure A 2 4 6 trichloro 1 3 5 triazine was coupled with 4 2 Aminoethyl pyridine with reaction time of 2 h. Purification by column chromatography gave the title compound.

Following the general procedure A 2 4 6 trichloro 1 3 5 triazine was coupled with 1 2 Aminoethyl piperidine with reaction time of 2 h. Purification by column chromatography gave the title compound.

Following the general procedure A 2 4 6 trichloro 1 3 5 triazine was coupled with N 2 aminoethyl morpholine with reaction time of 2 h. Purification by column chromatography gave the title compound.

Following the general procedure the desired compound was obtained. Purification by column chromatography gave the title compound.

Following the general procedure A 1 the desired compound was obtained. Purification by column chromatography gave the title compound.

Following the general procedure A 1 the desired compound was obtained. Purification by column chromatography gave the title compound.

Following the general procedure A 1 the desired compound was obtained. Purification by column chromatography gave the title compound.

Following the general procedure A 1 the desired compound was obtained. Purification by column chromatography gave the title compound.

Following the general procedure A 1 the desired compound was obtained. Purification by column chromatography gave the title compound.

Following the general procedure A 1 the desired compound was obtained. Purification by column chromatography gave the title compound.

Following the general procedure A 1 the desired compound was obtained. Purification by column chromatography gave the title compound.

Following the general procedure A 2 4 6 dichloro N 2 piperidin 1 yl ethyl 1 3 5 triazin 2 amine was coupled with 2 pyridinemethanol with reaction time of 3 h. Purification by column chromatography gave the title compound.

Following the general procedure A 1 the desired compound was obtained. Purification by column chromatography gave the title compound.

Cyanuric chloride 10.0 g 54.2 mmol 1.0 eq. was dissolved in methylene chloride 60 ml and morpholine 4.70 ml 54.2 mmol 1.0 eq. was slowly added drop by drop to the reaction mixture at 50 C. stirred for 20 minutes at the same temperature and poured into water. After extraction with methylene chloride and ethyl acetate 2 the organic layers were dried over MgSOand concentrated. Further purification was done by flash chromatography 1 1 hexane ethyl acetate to yield the title compound as a colorless solid 3.56 g 28 .

Alternatively Method 1 for the Synthesis of 4 4 6 dichloro 1 3 5 triazin 2 yl morpholin According to EP1020462B1 

Cyanuric chloride 10.0 g 54.0 mmol dissolved in acetone 100 ml was cooled to 5 C. slowly added with triethylamine 4.70 ml 49.0 mmol dropwise and further slowly added with morpholine 7.50 g 54.0 mmol dropwise. The reaction mixture was stirred at the same temperature for one hour and then stirred at room temperature for one hour. The reaction solution was poured into water 500 ml . The precipitated crystals were collected by filtration washed with trace amount of acetone and dried to obtain 9.70 g yield 69 of 2 4 dichloro 6 morpholino 1 3 5 triazine as colorless crystals with melting point of 155 C. 157 C.

Alternatively Method 2 for the Synthesis of 4 4 6 dichloro 1 3 5 triazin 2 yl morpholin According to EP1020462B1 

An aqueous solution of morpholine 120 mmol 2.0 eq. was slowly added dropwise to a solution of cyanuric chloride 60.2 mmol 1.0 eq. in ethyleneglycol dimethyl ether 130 ml at 15 C. to 5 C. The reaction mixture was stirred at 15 C. for 2 h and then at room temperature for 20 h. After removal of the solvent the residue was extracted with CHCl. The extract was washed with brine dried over MgSOand concentrated to give the title compound as colorless crystals Yield 63 .

4 4 6 dichloro 1 3 5 triazin 2 yl morpholine 1.40 g 5.96 mmol 1.0 eq. was dissolved in dichloromethane 21 ml . N Methylpiperazine 727 l 6.56 mmol 1.1 eq. was added to the reaction mixture at 0 C. and stirred for 30 minutes at the same temperature. The solvent was evaporated under reduced pressure and purification by flash chromatography yielded the title compound as a white solid 690 mg 39 .

A mixture of methyl 4 aminothiazole 5 carboxylate 1.0 eq. and urea 5 eq. was heated at 190 C. for 2 hours. The hot reaction mixture was poured onto sodium hydroxide solution and any insoluble material was removed by filtration. The mixture was then acidified HCl 2N to yield thiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidine 5 7 4H 6H dione as a white precipitate which was collected by filtration and air dried.

A mixture of thiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidine 5 7 4H 6H dione 2 9.49 g 56.5 mmol and phosphorous oxychloride 150 mL was heated at reflux for 6 h. The reaction mixture was then cooled and POClwas evaporated under reduced pressure. The crude product was washed with diethyl ether and NaHCO. The mixture was then filtered to yield 5 7 dichlorothiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidine as a white solid.

A mixture of 5 7 dichlorothiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidine 1.0 eq. morpholine 2.2 eq. and MeOH was stirred at room temperature for 1 h. The reaction mixture was then filtered washed with water and MeOH to yield 4 5 chlorothiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidin 7 yl morpholine as a white solid 100 .

3 4 morpholinothieno 3 2 d pyrimidin 2 yl phenol synthesized according to Hayakawa et al. Bioorganic Med. Chem. 14 6847 6858 2006 540 mg 1.72 mmol 1.0 eq. was dissolved in DMF 5 ml . To this imidazole 936 mg 13.8 mmol 8.0 eq. and TBDMSCl 909 mg 6.02 mmol 3.5 eq. were added and the mixture was heated at 70 C. for 3 h. DMF was evaporated under reduced pressure and purification by flash chromatography hexane ethyl acetate gradient from 100 50 hexane in EtOAc yielded the title compound as a white solid.

3 7 morpholinothiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidin 5 yl phenol 1.0 eq. was dissolved in DMF 5 ml . To this imidazole 8.0 eq. and TBDMSCl 3.5 eq. were added and the mixture was heated at 70 C. for 5 h. DMF was evaporated under reduced pressure and purification by flash chromatography hexane ethyl acetate gradient from 100 50 hexane in EtOAc yielded the title compound as a white solid.

4 2 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy phenyl thieno 3 2 d pyrimidin 4 yl morpholine 166 mg 388 mol 1.0 eq. was solved with dry THF 3 ml under room temperature and added to a round two neck flask that was heated under vacuum and flushed with nitrogen. The solution was then cooled to 78 C. and n BuLi 315 l 1.6 M solution in hexanes 1.3 eq. was added dropwise. After stirring for 20 min. 2 boc amino ethyl bromide 130 mg 582 mol 1.5 eq. was added to the reaction mixture and the reaction mixture was stirred at 78 C. for 20 min. and then warmed to room temperature. The reaction mixture was further stirred at room temperature overnight.

tert butyl 2 2 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy phenyl 4 morpholinothieno 3 2 d pyrimidin 6 yl ethylcarbamate 10.0 mg 1.0 eq. was solved in 3 ml of TFA DCM 1 1 . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The silica column chromatography DCM MeOH 95 5 gave the title compound.

To a solution of 2 2 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy phenyl 4 morpholinothieno 3 2 d pyrimidin 6 yl ethanamine 0.010895 mmol 1.0 eq. in DMF 200 l at room temperature was added Bodipy NHS 0.011984 mmol 1.1 eq. followed by DIPEA 0.02179 mmol 2.0 eq. . After 24 h stirring at room temperature in dark the solvents were removed at high vacuum and the mixture was purified by flash chromatography DCM MeOH 35 1 . Further purification by preparative TLC yielded the title compound.

To a solution of TBDMS protected phenol derivative 0.060269 mmol 1.0 eq. in 3 ml abs. THF cooled to 0 C. was added a 1M solution of tetrabutyl ammonium fluoride TBAF in THF 0.120538 mmol 2.0 eq. . After 40 min. stirring at 0 C. the solvent was removed in vacuo and the residue purified by flash chromatography gradient hexane ethyl acetate and then the residue was triturated with EtOAc MeOH mixture to yield the title compound as a colorless solid.

To a stirred solution of 3 amino 2 3 dihydrobenzofuran 2 carboxamide 82.2 mg 0.461 mmol 1.0 eq. in anhydrous toluene 8 mL under an inert atmosphere was added oxalyl chloride 70.2 mg 553 mol 1.2 eq. in a dropwise manner. The resulting mixture was heated to reflux 115 C. for 4 hours whereupon it was cooled and stirred for a further 16 hours. The crude reaction mixture was concentrated to half of its volume and filtered to give a colorless solid 41.5 mg 45 .

3 amino 2 3 dihydrobenzofuran 2 carboxamide 200 mg 1.14 mmol 1.0 eq. and ethyl chloroformate 109 ml 1.14 mmol 1.0 eq. in anhydrous toluene 10 mL under an inert atmosphere was heated to reflux 115 C. for 6 hours and then stirred at room temperature overnight. The solvent was removed and the residue was purified by chromatography gradient from 100 hexan in EtOAc to 50 to yield a white solid 130 mg 46 .

Ethyl 2 carbamoylbenzofuran 3 ylcarbamate 114 mg 0.460 mmol 1.0 eq in a 5 NaOH solution 3.7 mL 4.60 mmol 10.0 eq and EtOH 2.2 mL was heated to reflux for 1 h. After the mixture was cooled to room temperature the product was precipitated by adding HCl conc. 37 and a solid was collected by filtration and washed with water and EtO. This compound 40 mg 43 was used for the next step without further purification.

Benzofuro 3 2 d pyrimidine 2 4 1H 3H dione 100 mg 495 mol 1.0 eq in toluen 810 L under an inert atmosphere was added N N diisopropylethylamin 427 mL 2.48 mmol 5.0 eq . Phosphorus oxychloride 227 mL 2.48 mmol 5.0 eq was then added to the mixture dropwise before the reaction was heated to 100 C. for 22 hours. The mixture was then concentrated in vacuo and water was added 20 mL and the mixture was extracted with DCM and washed with sat. NaHCO. Solvents were removed by HV and the compound was purified by chromatography gradient from 100 hexane in EtOAc to 50 hexan to yield a colorless solid 68.3 mg 58 .

2 4 dichlorobenzofuro 3 2 d pyrimidine 61 mg 0.255 mmol 1.0 eq was dissolved in MeOH 2 mL and morpholine 49.1 mL 562 mol 2.2 eq was added. The reaction mixture was hated to reflux for 30 minutes and then cooled to room temperature. Solvents were removed in vacuo and the residue was purified by silica gel chromatography gradient from 100 hexane in EtOAc to 50 hexane and a colorless solid was obtained 59.4 mg 80 .

Argon gas was bubbled through a mixture of 2 chloro 4 morpholinobenzofuro 3 2 d pyrimidine ASA66 48.7 mg 168 mol 1.0 eq and 3 Hydroxyphenylboronic acid pinacol ester MW 220 148 mg 672 mol 4.0 eq in 1 2 dimethoxyethan and 2 M NaCO 3 1 4 mL for 5 min. Dichloro 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene palladium II dichloromethane complex MW 732 3.07 mg 4.20 mol 0.025 eq was added and the reaction mixture was heated to reflux 90 C. for 15.5 h. The red solution was cooled and diluted with EtOAc 6.5 mL . The organic solution was washed with a mixture of HO NaCO NHOH conc. 32 in water 5 4 1 6.5 mL then NHCl sat. and brine 2 dried over NaCO filtered and concentrated. Purification by silica gel chromatography gave a colorless solid 49 mg 85 .

Argon gas was bubbled through a mixture of 2 chloro 4 morpholinobenzofuro 3 2 d pyrimidine ASA75 80 mg 0.276 mmol 1.0 eq and 2 Aminopyridine 5 boronic acid pinacol ester MW 220 243 mg 1.10 mmol 4.0 eq in 1 2 dimethoxyethan and 2 NaCO 3 1 6 mL for 5 min. dichioro 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene palladium II dichloromethane complex MW 732 5.05 mg 0.00690 mmol 0.025 eq was added and the reaction mixture was heated to reflux 90 C. for 14 h 45 min cooled and diluted with EtOAc 9 mL . The organic solution was washed with a mixture of HO NaCO NHOH conc. 32 in water 5 4 1 9 mL then NHCl sat. and brine 2 dried over NaCO filtered and concentrated. Purification by silica gel chromatography gradient from MeOH in DCM to 5 MeOH in DCM gave a colorless solid 4.40 mg 5 .

Argon gas was bubbled through a mixture of 2 chloro 4 morpholinobenzofuro 3 2 d pyrimidine ASA75 80 mg 0.276 mmol 1.0 eq and Indole 4 boronic acid pinacol ester MW 243 267 mg 1.10 mmol 4.0 eq in 1 2 dimethoxyethan and 2 M NaCO 3 1 6 mL for 5 min. dichloro 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene palladium II dichloromethane complex MW 732 5.05 mg 0.00690 mmol 0.025 eq was added and the reaction mixture was heated to reflux 90 C. for 15 h 30 min cooled and diluted with EtOAc 20 mL . The organic solution was washed with a mixture of HO NaCO NHOH conc. 32 in water 5 4 1 9 mL then NHCl sat. and brine 2 dried over NaCO filtered and concentrated. Purification by silica gel chromatography gradient from 100 hexane in EtOAc to 50 hexane gave a yellowish solid 89.0 mg 87 .

Argon gas was bubbled through a mixture of 2 chloro 4 morpholinobenzofuro 3 2 d pyrimidine ASA75 80 mg 0.276 mmol 1.0 eq and Indole 5 boronic acid pinacol ester MW 243 267 mg 1.10 mmol 4.0 eq in 1 2 dimethoxyethan and 2 M NaCO 3 1 6 mL for 5 min. dichloro 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene palladium II dichloromethane complex MW 732 5.05 mg 0.00690 mmol 0.025 eq was added and the reaction mixture was heated to reflux 90 C. for 15 h cooled and diluted with EtOAc 20 mL . The organic solution was washed with a mixture of HO NaCO NHOH conc. 32 in water 5 4 1 9 mL then NHCl sat. and brine 2 dried over NaCO filtered and concentrated. Purification by silica gel chromatography gradient from 100 hexane in EtOAc to 70 hexane gave a colorless solid 35 mg 34 .

Inhibitor efficacy of formula I compounds were measured by a cell assay employing the following protocol 

Cells were plated in black 96 well view plates Packard 24 hours prior to the experiment. Inhibitor or DMSO as control were added to the medium each sample as duplicates and incubated for 3 hours. 4 para formaldehyde was applied for 20 minutes at room temperature to fix the cells. After washing with PBS 0.1 Triton X 100 blocking with 10 goat serum in PBS was done for 1 hour. On a shaker antibodies diluted in PBS against pPKB Ser473 Cell Signalling and PKB gift from E. Hirsch or pS6 Ser 235 236 Cell Signalling were incubated overnight at 4 C. After washing with PBS secondary antibodies LI COR diluted in PBS were applied at room temperature in the dark. Plates were washed with PBS prior to scanning on an Odyssey reader.

The more phosphorylated PKB was measured on the Odyssey scan the higher the pPKB PKB values were i.e. the less strong was inhibition of signalling. A summary of the results obtained for some exemplary compounds is depicted in table 7.

Assessment of compound permeability was indirectly intepretated by using this assay. The compounds were applied to the apical surface of cell monolayers and compound permeation into the cellular compartment could be interpretated by measuring the inhibition of PI3Ks.

The foregoing description is considered as illustrative only of the principles of the invention. Further since numerous modifications and changes will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art it is not desired to limit the invention to the exact construction and process shown as described above. Accordingly all suitable modifications and equivalents may be considered to fall within the scope of the invention as defined by the claims that follow.

The words comprise comprising include including and includes when used in this specification and in the following claims are intended to specify the presence of stated features integers components or steps but they do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers components steps or groups thereof.

