---

title: Biomarkers for myocardial ischemia
abstract: This invention relates, e.g., to a method for determining if a subject has myocardial ischemia, comprising (a) providing a blood sample obtained from a subject suspected of having myocardial ischemia; (b) determining in the sample the amount of one or more of the following proteins: (i) Lumican and/or (ii) Extracellular matrix protein 1 and/or (iii) Carboxypeptidase N; and (c) comparing the amount(s) of the protein(s) to a baseline value that is indicative of the amount of the protein in a subject that does not have myocardial ischemia, wherein a statistically significantly increased amount of the protein(s) compared to the baseline value is indicative of myocardial ischemia. Other proteins indicative of myocardial ischemia are also described, as are methods for treating a subject based on a diagnostic procedure of the invention, and kits for carrying out a method of the invention.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08497078&OS=08497078&RS=08497078
owner: The Johns Hopkins University
number: 08497078
owner_city: Baltimore
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090526
---
This application is a U.S. national stage of PCT US2009 045168 and claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 128 686 filed May 23 2008 each of which is entirely incorporated herein by reference.

Coronary heart disease is the most common single cause of death in the western world representing about 20 of all deaths. This is equivalent to about 2 million deaths in Europe per year or four people per minute. In the US over 8 million people exhibit acute chest pain symptoms in the Emergency Department ED of hospitals with 1.5 million individuals having confirmed acute coronary symptom ACS events accounting for 500 000 short term deaths. In patients presenting to the emergency room with chest pain fewer than 15 are ultimately diagnosed as having ischemia or acute myocardial infarction MI . Currently blood tests for the cardiac specific isoform of troponin I or troponin T TnI or TnT respectively are generally used for the diagnosis of acute myocardial infarction due to cardiac muscle cell death . Creatine kinase CK MB and myoglobin can also be used but are considered to be less specific for cardiac injury. However although these cardiac biomarkers can identify patients with even small amounts of myocardial necrosis there is an earlier time point in which the heart is in ischemia but is not yet in necrosis and the diagnosis of cardiac ischemia in the absence of necrosis cannot currently be made with accuracy.

It would be useful to be able to identify subjects in this diagnostic window having non necrotic ischemia . Such a diagnostic tool would be of great value for triage in the emergency department. For example it would allow earlier intervention including earlier perfusion to allow increased salvage of the injured myocardium and it would prevent unnecessary admittance to the hospital of patients with non cardiac chest pain. Furthermore such an assay could delay therapy in subjects who do not exhibit diagnostic electrocardiographic ECG changes and could help to improve the accuracy of current provocative tests for ischemia such as exercise stress testing. The sooner intervention can be carried out the less cardiac damage will occur. Reduced damage is correlated with an increase in long term survival.

The present inventors have identified a number of protein markers for cardiac myocardial ischemia including non necrotic cardiac myocardial ischemia.

Three different types of protein analysis were performed to identify these markers in order to cover as broad a base as possible of proteome coverage e.g. to allow the enhanced detection of isoforms and of post translational modifications PTM . These types of analysis were two dimensional electrophoresis 2DE separating proteins based on pI and molecular weight two dimensional liquid chromatography 2DLC separating proteins based on pI and hydrophobicity and one dimensional liquid chromatography 1DLC separating proteins based on hydrophobicity . Note that the starting pH differs between 2DLC and 1DLC pH 8.5 and 2.3 respectively. Two different cohorts were analyzed increased metabolic demand cohort 1 and reduced supply cohort 2 .

In a first study ischemia was induced in a first cohort of subjects by metabolic demand subjects were stimulated by atrial pacing which makes the heart beat faster and induces ischemia as indicated by an increase in lactate and potentially myocardial necrosis based on detection of cTnI or cTnT in blood . In some cases individuals did not exhibit any increase in lactate or detectable cTnI cTnT. These latter individuals were considered controls. Multiple serum samples were obtained for each individual. Differences between baseline prior to pacing and those at peaking pacing and up to 60 minutes after were analyzed. Those proteins that were elevated compared to the baseline in the majority of ischemic or necroiss individuals and not elevated in controls were considered to be of interest.

This procedure mimics naturally occurring metabolic cardiac events such as ministrokes that might precede a full MI. Ischemia is a heterogeneous group of conditions resulting from different underlying mechanisms such as demand and supply limitation. We have mimicked these two conditions in the different cohorts used in the analysis. Thus these cohorts are expected to reflect markers that are overexpressed in subjects suffering from ischemia resulting from a variety of such underlying mechanisms. Samples from demand atrial pacing were evaluated by 2DE 2DLC and 1DLC.

In a second study ischemia was induced in a second cohort by coronary blockage subjects undergoing valve replacement surgery exhibited ischemia because of blood loss during the procedure. This procedure mimics naturally occurring events in which ischemia is induced by coronary blood vessel blockage. This cohort was evaluated only by 1DLC the procedure which provided a comparison to the most useful results with the first cohort. Those proteins found to be altered in both cohorts are considered to be tier one markers although strong hits in either cohort may also be considered to be prime candidate markers.

The results of the studies with these two cohorts are summarized in Table 13. Taken together these studies show that three proteins are implicated as the most highly correlated markers sometimes referred to herein as first tier markers as they are observed to be elevated in both cohorts for ischemia regardless of the cause of the ischemia Lumican Extracellular matrix protein 1 ECM 1 and Carboxypeptidase N e.g. the catalytic chain .

Three markers in addition to Lumican ECM 1 and Carboxypeptidase N are implicated as first tier markers for at least subjects similar to those in the first cohort Angiogenin Semenogclin e.g. isoforms 1 and 2 and Long palate lung and nasal epithelium carcinoma associated protein 1 LPLNECA 1 e.g. isoform 1 isoforms 2 4 are also present but the method of analysis employed in this study although it supports isoform 1 cannot distinguish among the four isoforms which are splice variants so isoforms 2 4 cannot be ruled out due to sequence homology .

Ten markers in addition to Lumican ECM 1 and Carboxypeptidase N are implicated as first tier markers for at least subjects similar to those in the second cohort Perioxiredoxin isoform 2 5100 isoforms A7 A8 and A9 other S100 isoforms were detected and not observed to be altered Sortilin related receptor Catalase Low density lipoprotein receptor related proteins 1 and 2 and Syntaxin 3.

In addition to these first tier markers Table 13 lists some second tier markers which can also be used for identifying subjects similar to those in both cohorts I and II in cohort I or in cohort II. These include e.g. Alpha 2 HS glycoprotein Galectin 7 Hornerin Proteoglycan 4 Profilaggrin also called Filaggrin Vitamin D binding protein C4b binding protein alpha chain Thyroxine binding globulin Alpha 2 glycoprotein 1 zinc protease serine 3 Caspase 14 Desmogelin Kininogen 1 we observed the peptide for the intact protein but our data cannot distinguish between changes to the LMW or HMW which could also be present Hepatocyte growth factor like protein Hepatocyte growth factor activator and Insulin like growth factor protein 6.

In some embodiments of the invention it is desirable to distinguish between subjects whose ischemia is induced by metabolic causes similar to the subjects of cohort I and subjects whose ischemia is induced by coronary blood vessel blockage similar to the subjects of cohort II because different treatment methods can be used for the two classes of subjects. The markers of the invention can be used to make such distinctions.

This invention relates e.g. to a method for determining if a subject has myocardial ischemia comprising measuring in a sample from the subject the amount of at least one of the following proteins compared to a baseline value 

wherein a significant amount e.g. at least a statistically significant amount of over expression of the protein s compared to the baseline value is indicative of myocardial ischemia e.g. indicates that the subject has or is likely to have myocardial ischemia . The amount of expression may be determined for any combination of 1 2 or all 3 of these proteins and the determinations can be conducted simultaneously or in any order.

Another aspect of the invention is a method for identifying subjects that have myocardial ischemia that is induced by a metabolic induced ischemic event due to a metabolic limitation in which the heart is unable to meet metabolic need excessive metabolic demand comprising determining in the sample from the subject the amount compared to a baseline value of at least one of proteins a b c above 

f Long palate lung and nasal epithelium carcinoma associated protein 1. The amount of expression may be determined for any combination of 1 2 3 4 5 or 6 of these proteins and the determinations can be conducted simultaneously or in any order.

Another aspect of the invention is a method for identifying subjects that have myocardial ischemia that is induced by coronary blood vessel blockage which limits the supply of blood comprising determining in the sample from the subject the amount compared to a baseline value of at least one of proteins a b c above 

o Low density lipoprotein receptor related protein 2. The amount of expression may be determined for any combination of 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 or 12 of these proteins and the determinations can be conducted simultaneously or in any order.

In addition to the proteins noted above one of more of the second tier proteins indicated in Table 13 can also be measured. A skilled worker will recognize which of these markers are indicative of a cohort I type of condition and which are indicative of a cohort II type of condition.

Another aspect of the invention is a method for determining if a subject has myocardial ischemia comprising determining in a sample from the subject the amount compared to a baseline value of at least one e.g. at least four of at least proteins a p as noted above. The amount of expression may be determined for any combination of 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 or 15 of these proteins and the determinations can be conducted simultaneously or in any order.

In a method of the invention a determination that increasing numbers of protein markers of the invention are overexpressed in a subject can further indicate that the subject has or is likely to have myocardial ischemia.

A method as above may further comprise measuring in the sample the amount of one or more other markers that have been reported to be diagnostic of cardiac necrosis including cardiac specific isoforms of troponin I TnI and or troponin T TnT although CK MB myoglobin have been used in the past cTnI and cTnT are the current gold standards wherein a significant increase e.g. at least a statistically significant increase of the one or more markers further is further indicative that the subject has myocardial ischemia.

As noted above ischemia is a heterogeneous condition caused by a variety of underlying mechanisms. Even if a single marker of the invention is capable of detecting a subject having ischemia resulting from a particular mechanism it is possible for some markers that the marker is also upregulated in a disease other than myocardial ischemia. In such a case it would be desirable to screen for upregulation of at least one additional marker that is associated with ischemia caused by a different underlying mechanism. The column labeled Function in Table 13 shows that some of the markers of the invention can be divided into particular groups on the basis of their functions. A skilled worker studying this table could readily identify markers associated with different mechanisms. In one embodiment of the invention markers associated with 2 3 4 or more underlying mechanisms can be tested together in an assay of the invention.

Another aspect of the method is a method for deciding how to treat a subject suspected of having myocardial ischemia or a subject that is at high risk for having myocardial ischemia comprising determining by a method as above if the subject has or is likely to have myocardial ischemia and 1 if the subject is determined to have or to be likely to have myocardial ischemia deciding to treat the subject aggressively such as with angioplasty mechanical widening in opening blood vessels treating with an anti thrombolysis agent or if possible with percutaneous coronary intervention PCI or TPA or undergoing coronary bypass surgery to replace the injured blocked coronary artery or 2 if the subject is determined not to have or not to be likely to have myocardial ischemia deciding to treat the subject non aggressively such as with asprin and or thrombolysis e.g. TPA with periodic monitoring to ensure no future MI events or by recommending changes in life style. This method can be used to confirm that a subject does not have ischemia especially if myocardial ischemia is not detectable by cTnI or cTnT elevation and thus to allow the subject to be released from hospital care. 

Another aspect of the invention is a method for treating a subject suspected of having myocardial ischemia or a subject that is at high risk for having myocardial ischemia comprising determining by a method as above if the subject has or is likely to have myocardial ischemia and 1 if the subject is determined to have or to be likely to have myocardial ischemia treating the subject aggressively as indicated above or 2 if the subject is determined not to have or not to be likely to have myocardial ischemia treating the subject non aggressively as indicated above.

Another aspect of the invention is a kit for detecting the presence of ischemia in a subject comprising reagents for detecting the amounts of at least one e.g. any combination of 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 or 15 of at least proteins a o as noted above.

This invention relates e.g. to a method for determining if a subject has myocardial ischemia comprising

 b determining in the sample the amount of at least one of at least proteins a p as noted above e.g. any combination of 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 or 15 of the proteins and

 c comparing the amount s of the protein s to a baseline value that is indicative of the amount of the protein in a subject that does not have myocardial ischemia 

wherein an increased amount e.g. a statistically significantly increased amount of the protein s compared to the baseline value is indicative of myocardial ischemia.

In one embodiment of the invention the amount s of the protein s is compared over time to the baseline value and or to levels known to be associated with necrosis. The kinetic rise and fall of combinations of proteins is indicative of impending myocardial ischemia or other cardio and vascular events such as stroke. A method of the invention can also be used to determine risk in subjects patients with stable or unstable angina.

A sample which is provided can be obtained by the person or machine conducting the assay or it can have been obtained by another and transferred to the person or machine carrying out the assay.

By a sample e.g. a test sample from a subject meant a sample that might be expected to contain elevated levels of the protein markers of the invention in a subject having myocardial ischemia. Many suitable sample types will be evident to a skilled worker. In one embodiment of the invention the sample is a blood sample such as whole blood plasma or serum plasma from which clotting factors have been removed . For example peripheral arterial or venous plasma or serum can be used. In another embodiment the sample is urine sweat or another body fluid into which proteins are sometimes removed from the blood stream. In the case of urine for example the protein is likely to be broken down so diagnostic fragments of the proteins of the invention can be screened for. In another embodiment the sample is cardiac tissue which is harvested e.g. after a heart transplant or the insertion of a pacemaker or defibrillator. Methods for obtaining samples and preparing them for analysis e.g. for detection of the amount of protein are conventional and well known in the art. Some suitable methods are described in the Examples herein or in the references cited therein.

A subject as used herein includes any animal that has or is suspected of having myocaridal ischemia. Suitable subjects patients include laboratory animals such as mouse rat rabbit guinea pig or pig farm animals sporting animals e.g. dogs or horses and domestic animals or pets such as a horse dog or cat . Non human primates and human patients are included. For example human subjects who present with chest pain or other symptoms of cardiac distress including e.g. shortness of breath nausea vomiting sweating weakness fatigue or palpitations can be evaluated by a method of the invention. About of MI are silent and without chest pain. Furthermore patients who have been evaluated in an emergency room or in an ambulance or physician s office and then dismissed as not being ill according to current tests for infarction have an increased risk of having a heart attack in the next 24 48 hours such patients can be monitored by a method of the invention to determine if and when they begin express markers of the invention which indicates that e.g. they are beginning to exhibit ischemia. Subjects can also be monitored by a method of the invention to improve the accuracy of current provocative tests for ischemia such as exercise stress testing. An individual can be monitored by a method of the invention during exercise stress tests of Dobutamine stress tests to determine if the individual is at risk for ischemia such monitoring can supplement or replace the test that is currently carried out. Athletes e.g. humans racing dogs or race horses can be monitored during training to ascertain if they are exerting themselves too vigorously and are in danger of undergoing an MI.

In another embodiment of the invention the method is used as a screen in order to identify a drug or to improve a cardioplegic solution that protects the heart from ischemia and necrosis. The detection of one or more of the proteins of the invention in blood or media if cell culture is used is indicative of ischemia and the quantity of the protein s is indicative of the severity of the ischemia.

The properties and amino acid sequences of the proteins of the invention are well known and can be determined routinely as well as downloaded from various known databases. See e.g. the database International Protein Index IPI at the world wide web site ebi.ac.uk IPI xrefs.html. A summary of some properties of some of the proteins discussed herein including their IPI ID number and amino acid sequences is provided in Examples II and IV. This information is accurate as of the date of filing of this application. However some of this information including the sequences is routinely updated e.g. to correct mistakes in the previous entries so updated corrected information about the proteins is included in this application. Information provided in the IPI database is incorporated by reference in the present application.

Although much of the data presented in the Examples herein are directed to particular forms of proteins of interest or peptides thereof it will be evident to a skilled worker that a variety of forms of these proteins may be indicative of the presence of myocardial ischemia in a subject. For example the protein may be an intact full length protein. If a protein undergoes processing naturally e.g. is converted from a pre pro hormone to a pro hormone to a fully processed hormone the N terminal methionine is cleaved off the signal sequence is removed often accompanied by a post translational modification such as acetylation etc. any of these forms of the protein are included in the invention. Furthermore in some instances a protein of the invention may be broken down or degraded e.g. proteins that are found in the urine . In such a case an investigator can determine the level of one or more of the fragments or degradation products. A diagnostic protein fragment as used herein is a fragment that is unique to the protein being identified as detected by the assay. For example a diagnostic fragment is recognized specifically by an antibody used to detect the full length protein. Certain isoforms or post translational modifications PTM may also be encompassed by the invention. For example the inventors have obtained data indicating PTM for C4b binding proteins protease serine 3 alpha 2 glycoprotein 1 and zinc caspase 14.

The proteins and combinations of proteins discussed herein are sometimes referred to herein as proteins or protein markers of the invention. 

A variety of tests that have been used to detect myocardial events particularly late occurring events such as necrotic myocardial ischemia . These include e.g. determining the levels of cardiac specific isoform s of troponin I TnI and or troponin T TnT CK MB Creatine Kinase MB or myoglobin although only the former two are the current gold standard. CK MB and myoglobin are not cardiac specific. However none of these markers is completely satisfactory for the detection of myocardial ischemia. For example they fail to detect early stages of heart disease such as non necrotic myocardial ischemia. The new markers described herein can be used in conjunction with these types of assays.

When the values of more than one protein are being analyzed a statistical method such as multi variant analysis or principal component analysis PCA is used which takes into account the levels of the various proteins e.g. using a linear regression score . For verification we will use either immunoassay or multiple reaction monitoring MRM a MS based targeted method that quantifies peptides that are unique to the protein of interest on individuals control ischemia and MI .

In some embodiments it is desirable to express the results of an assay in terms of an increase e.g. a statistically significant increase in a value or combination of values compared to a baseline value.

A significant increase in a value as used herein can refer to a difference which is reproducible or statistically significant as determined using statistical methods that are appropriate and well known in the art generally with a probability value of less than five percent chance of the change being due to random variation. In general a statistically significant value is at least two standard deviations from the value in a normal healthy control subject. Suitable statistical tests will be evident to a skilled worker. For example a significant increase in the amount of a protein compared to a baseline value can be about 50 2 fold or more higher. A significantly elevated amount of a protein of the invention compared to a suitable baseline value then is indicative that a test subject has myocardial ischemia indicates that the subject is likely to have myocardial ischemia . A subject is likely to have myocardial ischemia if the subject has levels of the marker protein s significantly above those of a healthy control or his own baseline taken at an earlier time point . The extent of the increased levels correlates to the chance. For example the subject can have greater than about a 50 chance e.g. greater than about 70 80 90 95 or higher chance of having the ischemia. In general the presence of an elevated amount of a marker of the invention is a strong indication that the subject has ischemia.

As used herein a baseline value generally refers to the level amount of a protein in a comparable sample e.g. from the same type of tissue as the tested tissue such as blood or serum from a normal healthy subject that does not exhibit myocardial ischemia. If desired a pool or population of the same tissues from normal subjects can be used and the baseline value can be an average or mean of the measurements. Suitable baseline values can be determined by those of skill in the art without undue experimentation. Suitable baseline values may be available in a database compiled from the values and or may be determined based on published data or on retrospective studies of patients tissues and other information as would be apparent to a person of ordinary skill implementing a method of the invention. Suitable baseline values may be selected using statistical tools that provide an appropriate confidence interval so that measured levels that fall outside the standard value can be accepted as being aberrant from a diagnostic perspective and predictive of ischemia.

It is generally not practical in a clinical or research setting to use patient samples as sources for baseline controls. Therefore one can use any of variety of reference values in which the same or a similar level of expression is found as in a subject that does not have myocardial ischemia.

It will be appreciated by those of skill in the art that a baseline or normal level need not be established for each assay as the assay is performed but rather baseline or normal levels can be established by referring to a form of stored information regarding a previously determined baseline levels for a given protein or panel of proteins such as a baseline level established by any of the above described methods. Such a form of stored information can include for example a reference chart listing or electronic file of population or individual data regarding normal levels negative control or positive controls a medical chart for the patient recording data from previous evaluations a receiver operator characteristic ROC curve or any other source of data regarding baseline levels that is useful for the patient to be diagnosed. In one embodiment of the invention the amount of the proteins in a combination of proteins compared to a baseline value is expressed as a linear regression score as described e.g. in Irwin in Neter Kutner Nachtsteim Wasserman 1996 Applied Linear Statistical Models 4edition page 295.

In an embodiment in which the progress of a treatment is being monitored a baseline value can be based on earlier measurements taken from the same subject before the treatment was administered.

The amount of a protein can be measured using any suitable method. Some methods involve the use of antibodies binding ligands or mass spectrometry tagged peptides specific for a protein of interest. Antibodies suitable for use in assays of the invention are commercially available or can be prepared routinely. Methods for preparing and using antibodies in assays for proteins of interest are conventional and are described e.g. in Green et al. Manson ed. Humana Press 1992 Coligan et al. in Sec. 2.4.1 1992 Kohler Milstein 1975 256 495 Coligan et al. sections 2.5.1 2.6.7 and Harlow et al. Antibodies A Laboratory Manual page 726 Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Pub. 1988 .

Any of a variety of antibodies can be used in methods of the invention. Such antibodies include e.g. polyclonal monoclonal mAbs recombinant humanized or partially humanized single chain Fab and fragments thereof. The antibodies can be of any isotype e.g. IgM various IgG isotypes such as IgG IgG etc. and they can be from any animal species that produces antibodies including goat rabbit mouse chicken or the like. The term an antibody specific for a protein means that the antibody recognizes a defined sequence of amino acids or epitope in the protein. An antibody that is specific for a polypeptide refers to an antibody that binds selectively to the polypeptide and not generally to other polypeptides unintended for binding to the antibody. The parameters required to achieve such specificity can be determined routinely using conventional methods in the art. Conditions that are effective for binding a protein to an antibody which is specific for it are well known and conventional.

In one embodiment of the invention antibodies specific for a one or more protein of the invention are immobilized on a surface e.g. are reactive elements on an array such as a microarray or are on another surface such as used for surface plasmon resonance SPR based technology such as Biacore and proteins in the sample are detected by virtue of their ability to bind specifically to the antibodies. Alternatively proteins in the sample can be immobilized on a surface and detected by virtue of their ability to bind specifically to the antibodies. Methods of preparing the surfaces and performing the analyses including conditions effective for specific binding are conventional and well known in the art.

Among the many types of suitable immunoassays are immunohistochemical staining ELISA Western blot immunoblot immunoprecipitation radioimmuno assay RIA fluorescence activated cell sorting FACS etc. Assays used in a method of the invention can be based on colorimetric readouts fluorescent readouts mass spectrometry visual inspection etc. Assays can be carried out e.g. with suspension beads or with arrays in which antibodies or cell or blood samples are attached to a surface such as a glass slide or a chip.

In one embodiment a tissue sample e.g. a cardiac tissue sample is stained with a suitable antibody in a conventional immunohistochemical assay for those proteins which are present in the myocardium. Note that it can be difficult to obtain human tissue unless an individual is undergoing surgery or a routine biopsy e.g. following heart transplantation and such subjects are likely to be ischemic to some degree.

Mass spectrometry MS can also be used to determine the amount of a protein using conventional methods. Some typical such methods are described in the Examples herein. Relative ratio between multiple samples can be determined using label free methods as done in the present Examples based on spectral count and the number of unique peptides and the number of observation of each peptide . In the Examples herein we used a LTQ Orbitrap LC MS MS instrument to obtain the data. Alternatively quantitive data can be obtained using multiple reaction monitoring MRM most often carried out using a triple quadruple mass spectrometer. In this case peptides that are unique to a given protein are selected in the MS instrument and quantified. Absolute quantification can be obtained if a known labeled synthetic peptide is used. For detailed methods see e.g. Qin Fu and JE Van Eyk in Clinical Proteomics from diagnostics to therapy Van Eyk JE and Dunn M eds Wiley and Son Press Current Protocols in Molecular Biology Preparation of Proteins and Peptides for Mass Spectrometry Analysis in a Bottom Up Proteomics Workflow Gundry et al. chapter 10 2009 in press 

In general molecular biology methods referred to herein are well known in the art and are described e.g. in Sambrook et al. Molecular Cloning A Laboratory Manual current edition Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Cold Spring Harbor N.Y. and Ausubel et al. Current Protocols in Molecular Biology John Wiley sons New York N.Y.

A detection diagnostic method of the invention can be adapted for many uses. For example it can be used to follow the progression of cardiac ischemia. In one embodiment of the invention the detection is carried out both before or at approximately the same time as and after the administration of a treatment and the method is used to monitor the effectiveness of the treatment. A subject can be monitored in this way to determine the effectiveness for that subject of a particular drug regimen or a drug or other treatment modality can be evaluated in a pre clinical or clinical trial. If a treatment method is successful the levels of the protein markers of the invention are expected to decrease.

A method of the invention can be used to suggest a suitable method of treatment for a subject. For example if a subject is determined by a method of the invention to be likely to have myocardial ischemia a decision can be made to treat the subject with an aggressive form of treatment and in one embodiment the treatment is then administered. Suitable aggressive treatment modalities include for example angioplasty mechanical widening to open blood vessels treating with an anti thrombolysis agent or if possible with percutaneous coronary intervention PCI or TPA or undergoing coronary bypass surgery to replace the injured blocked coronary artery. Methods for carrying out such treatments are conventional and well known. By contrast if a subject is determined not to be likely to have myocardial ischemia a decision can be made to adopt a less aggressive treatment regimen and in one embodiment the subject is then treated with this less aggressive forms of treatment. Suitable less aggressive forms of treatment include for example treatment with asprin and or agents that bring about thrombolysis e.g. TPA periodic monitoring to ensure no future MI events or recommending changes in life style. A subject that does not have myocardial ischemia is thus spared the unpleasant side effects associated with the unnecessary more aggressive forms of treatment. By treated is meant that an effective amount of a drug or other anti heart disease procedure is administered to the subject. An effective amount of an agent refers to an amount that elicits a detectable response e.g. of a therapeutic response in the subject.

One aspect of the invention is a kit for detecting whether a subject is likely to have myocardial ischemia comprising one or more agents for detecting the amount of a protein of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. For example a protein of the invention as used above includes 2 3 4 5 or more of the proteins. In addition other markers for ischemia e.g. as discussed elsewhere herein can also be present in a kit. If mass spectrometry is to be used to measure protein levels the following reagents can be included in the kit known amounts of a labeled e.g. stable isotope peptide synthetic or recombinant standard for each peptide to be assessed separately or combined into a single mixture containing all peptides optionally a different peptide standard for assessing reproducibility of the assay and or optionally dilutant and trypsin for preparation of the sample. If an antibody based method is to be used to measure protein levels the agents in the kit can encompass antibodies specific for the proteins. The kit may also include additional agents suitable for detecting measuring and or quantitating the amount of protein including conventional analytes for creation of standard curves. Among other uses kits of the invention can be used in experimental applications. A skilled worker will recognize components of kits suitable for carrying out a method of the invention.

Optionally a kit of the invention may comprise instructions for performing the method. Optional elements of a kit of the invention include suitable buffers containers or packaging materials. The reagents of the kit may be in containers in which the reagents are stable e.g. in lyophilized form or stabilized liquids. The reagents may also be in single use form e.g. for the performance of an assay for a single subject. In one embodiment of the invention the kit is a home chest pain test kit that can be used to test blood urine or other body fluids for the presence and or level of protein markers of the invention. Thus a patient who has been released from an Emergency Department ED or a cardiac ward but who is at risk over the next about 48 hours can take the test over time at home and if the test produces positive results return to the ED.

In the foregoing and in the following examples all temperatures are set forth in uncorrected degrees Celsius and unless otherwise indicated all parts and percentages are by weight.

Rapid atrial pacing has been reported to produce reversible and controlled myocardial ischemia as measured by a coronary sinus lactate concentration that rises above arterial lactate concentration in approximately of patients with fixed epicardial coronary artery disease 70 diameter stenosis in at least one coronary artery . Dehmer et al. 1983 106 114 24 Markham et al. 1983 51 1589 94 . Therefore in the experiments shown in this Example atrial pacing was used as the human demand ischemia model.

In the studies shown in this Example three types of protein analysis were conducted to identify protein markers of the invention. There is normally less than 40 overlap e.g. 3 5 in the proteins observed between the different types of analysis platforms. This is because every protein is intrinsically different with respect to its pI hydrophobicity and mass. Furthermore post translational modifications PTM alter the intrinsic nature of the protein and thus may display quite different separation or enrichment characteristics. As such the choice of technology or group of technologies should be dictated by the characteristics of the proteins targeted by the experimental question. In the case of biomarker discovery and based on the lessons learnt from the biomarker cTnI multiple protein separation strategies should and do increase proteome coverage.

The present inventors and collaborators have found that the combination of intact protein separation technologies of 2DE two dimensional electrophoresis 2DLC two dimensional liquid chromatography and 1DLC one dimensional liquid chromatography increases the proteome coverage while allowing enhanced detection of isoforms and PTM. 2DE of serum and plasma was optimized for separation by using pH 4 7 and 10 Bis Tris gel Graham et al. 20050 5 2309 14 Fu et al. 2005 5 2656 64 as were the liquid chromatography methods. The combination of chemical depletion and optimized 2DE conditions can achieve good reproducibility 20 CV Fu et al. supra . Liquid chromatography LC separates proteins based on one or more of their intrinsic properties mass size exclusion isoelectric point pI chromatographic focusing or ion exchange hydrophobicity reversed phase or affinity chromatography bio specificity . Our laboratory has optimized 2DLC combining chromatographic focusing and reversed phase HPLC with the commercial Beckman Coulter instrument the Two Dimensional Protein Fractionation PF2D system McDonald et al. 2006 5 2392 411 Sheng et al. 2006 5 26 34 Stasna et al. Protein separation Liquid chromatography In Proteomic and Genomic Analysis of Cardiovascular Disease eds. Van Eyk JE and Dunn M 2008 Wiley and Son Press page 241 . Briefly samples are loaded onto the first dimension column ion exchange column at pH 8.5 in presence of urea and detergent and separated based on pI by decreasing the pH to 4.0 Graham et al. 2006 supra . Proteins that are bound tightly to the column or have a pI below 4.0 are eluted using 1M salt. We found that including 20 isopropanol in the buffers can eliminate artificial binding of a subset of proteins to the first dimension. Fractions are collected throughout the chromatographic separation and each fraction is subsequently separated by reversed phase chromatography using a linear gradient composed of aqueous trifloroacetic acid TFA pH 2.3 and TFA actronitrile pH 2.3. The second dimension elution profile is monitored at 214 nm peptide bonds and is semi quantitative. On average fractions contain 1 100 proteins in each peak McDonald et al. 2006 Graham et al. 2006 both supra . These samples can be further analyzed by electrophoresis 1DE or 2DE or analyzed directly by mass spectrometry MS . If so due to the complexity of the reversed phase fractions they must undergo further online LC separation prior to MS. An overview outlining the process is summarized in Fu et al. 2008 supra .

Patients 20 years old with stable exertional angina referred for cardiac catheterization were recruited Exclusion criteria were atrial fibrillation valvular heart disease prior coronary artery bypass surgery depressed left ventricular systolic function acute coronary syndrome and or left bundle branch block. As well patients were excluded if they reported angina within 48 hours of the catheterization. 19 individuals were recruited. The study was approved by the Institutional Review Boards of UT Southwestern and Parkland Hospital. All patients have signed written informed consent.

A 7 or 8 Fr Gorlin catheter was advanced to the coronary sinus from the right brachial vein. Coronary sinus peripheral arterial and peripheral venous serum samples were obtained prior to start of the atrial pacing. The left atrium was paced at 20 beats minute above the resting heart rate and this was increased every 3 minutes by 20 beats minute until one of the following occurs chest pain AV block or a heart rate of 160 beats minutes is achieved. The patient was maximally paced at this rate for 3 minutes. At the end of the three minute period repeat blood samples were collected from the coronary sinus and peripheral artery. Repeat sampling from the coronary sinus was performed at 30 and 60 minutes after pacing termination.

Blood was immediately placed on ice and was transported to the processing center within 30 minutes of collection. Samples were centrifuged serum and plasma separated and specimens aliquoted into 100 L tubes using an automated micropipette system. No samples were at room temperature for longer than 10 minutes. The longest duration between sample collection and freezing was less than one hour. Lactate and cardiac troponin T TnT was measured in heparinized plasma a see table 2 

Serum was depleted of IgG using protein G affinity chromatography and depleted of albumin using our in house affinity chemical depletion method Fu et al. 2005 supra . Protein concentration was determined using BCA assay Pierce for each depleted sample. 50 ug of each time point baseline time point 1 2 and 3 per individual was labeled with one of the three Cy dyes Applied Biosystems Inc. . As well a pool sample was created from equal amounts of each time point of a single patient sample. For each individual equal amount of two labeled sample two time points were mixed with the pool sample and then separated simultaneously using optimized pH 4 7 gel followed by 10 Bis Tris SDS PAGE. The gels were then imaged on a fluorescent gel imager at the Cy3 Cy5 and Cy2 wavelengths. Subsequently the gels were stained with silver to allow visualization for spot picking. Gel images were analyzed by Ludesi Inc http www.ludesi.com . Gels were aligned spots matched and quantified. For example gel images were prepared for an individual that became ischemic or underwent necrosis with pacing. Comparisons were made between baseline and the other subsequent time points for each individual. To avoid a nondetected zero value 0.1 was added to all values.

Selection criteria for 2DE was based on analysis of all individual in each group induced ischemia and induced necrosis and are as follows 

Approximately 1200 protein spots were resolved on each 2DE gel. Due to stringent criteria for cut offs most protein spots were deemed not to change or biological variability was too great to be significant see breakdown . Caspase 14 and complement factor B isoform 1 increased specifically in patients with necrosis while fibrinogen beta chain and desmoglein 1 increased in patients with severe ischemia and necrosis table 3 .

The majority of proteins observed by 2DE high abundant soluble proteins do not change with induced ischemia or necrosis. Without wishing to be bound by any particular mechanism Caspase 14 IPI00013885 is proposed to be involved in the death receptor and granzyme B apoptotic pathways. It may act as a downstream signal transducer of cell death. Desmoglein 1 IPI00025753 is a component of the cell desmosome junctions which are distinct plasma membrane domains. It has a single transmembrane domain. Desmosomes are the most common type of intercellular junction in vertebrate epithelial cells but found in other cell types. This protein is part of a complex comprising plakophilin 1 plakophilin 2 desmoplakin desmoglein 1 desmoglein 4 plakoglobin and corneodesmosin. Other proteins of the desmosome complex as well as caspase 14 are found by 1DLC and 2DLC in a few individuals.

Information sheets summarizing some of the properties of these and other proteins discussed herein are provided as Example II.

Each individual time sample outlined below table 4 was analyzed using reversed phase HPLC. The control group samples were selected based on having similar prelacate concentrations compared to the two disease groups.

Serum was depleted using an affinity chromatography comprised of IgY antibodies specific for all forms of immunoglobins IgG IgA and IgM and then depleted of albumin using our in house affinity chemical depletion method. This was done in order to reduce background of the chromatogram. Protein concentration was determined using BCA assay Pierce for each depleted sample. Samples were analyzed on the same 1DLC columns. 50 ug of each sample was run in duplicate using our optimized gradient. One set was used for mass spectrometric analysis the other set was stored at 80 C. Fractions were collected into 96 well plates stored at 80 C. until analyzed. Protein standard was run every morning to ensure good consistent and reproducible performance of HPLC system. Extensive washing was carried out between runs to eliminate possible cross over contamination. Chromatographic images were compared and regions domains with acceptable intensities from each experimental sample were selected or combined . Total 650 fractions 26 fractions per sample were dried down neutralized and digested with trypsin. 50 of the digested sample was applied to the LC LTQ Orbitrap MS.

For LC MS MS experiments on the LTQ Orbitrap ThermoFinnigan San Jose Calif. peptides were dissolved in 6 l resuspension buffer 4 acetonitrile in water with 0.1 formic acid . Samples 3 l were loaded onto a 75 um 10 cm BioBasic C18 column New Objective Wobum Mass. . Peptides were eluted into an LTQ Orbitrap ThermoFinnigan San Jose Calif. using an Agilent 1200 nano LC system Agilent Santa Clara Calif. . The HPLC gradient was 5 to 60 B 90 acetonitrile water in 0.1 Formic acid over 30 or 60 min depended on sample complexity. The mass spectrometer was operated in data dependent mode in which every FT MS scan survey 350 2000 Da was followed by MS MS scans of the 5 most abundant ions.

All mass spectrometry data was analyzed according to a pipeline established and already used in our laboratory designed to meet stringent criteria from the proteomics community. Data from the LTQ Orbitrap was searched against the IPI databases where possible using Sorcerer Sequest Sagen San Jose Calif. . Search results were validated and analyzed using Scaffold Proteome Systems Portland Oreg. . Protein identifications based upon a single peptide observation were handled carefully through manual inspection of the tandem MS MS MS spectra BLAST searching of the sequence to ensure it matches only the reported protein requiring a minimum of 8 amino acids and a peptide probability score of 0.9.

Data analysis was based on the following peptide redundancy removed protein name redundancy removed the number of unique peptides and number of observation for each peptide regardless of charge state 2 . 3 or 4 were determined for each protein. The protein was proposed to have a potential PTM if it was identified in multiple non sequential domain fractions. This was noted and all data regardless of the fraction was included for quantitation of the protein.

Data reanalysis was carried out using a version of the published algorithm for spectral counting Old et al. 2005 4.10 1487 502 that added a 1.25 correction factor value to all numbers in order to eliminate any zero values non detectable values . The algorithm R Log Px 1.25 P0 1.25 Log TP0 P0 1.25 TPx Px 1.25 and R Log SCx 1.25 SC0 SCx 1.25 Log TSC0 SC0 1.25 TSCx SCx 1.25 where Ris the Logratio of number of unique peptides between time points 0 and x Ris the Logratio of spectral counts between time points 0 and x P0 or Px is the number of unique peptides or at baseline 0 or another time point x for the specific protein of interest. TP0 or TPx is the number of all unique peptides for the complete data set for that individual at that specific time point 0 or x . SC0 and SCx are the spectral counts at time points 0 and x for the protein. TSC0 and TSCx are the total number of spectral counts in the experiment at time points 0 and x. There is a linear correlation between number of peptides observed and the spectra count under 70 peptides Protein . However for very abundant protein with 100 s of peptides and observations the relationship is more non linear. A cut off of 0.3 2 fold was used to indicate a change.

Two independent MS analyses were done on each LC fraction. In both cases LC fractions were stored 80 C. following an independent LC separation of the intact proteins. Image analysis was carried out between the various LC runs to match the fractions as closely as possible. However the fractions analyzed were not completely identical due to variation in the LC run and exact timing of the fraction collection. The stored fractions were dried down neutralized and digested with trypsin. The digested sample was applied to the LC LTQ Orbitrap MS and number of peptides and spectra count were determined table 5 . The total number of peptide and counts for each time points is shown in table 6. This is taken into account when calculating change.

Selection criteria for 1DLC was based on analysis of all individuals in each group induced necrosis or induced ischemia and are as follows 

i Changes in the number of unique peptides or the number of time each peptide was observed regardless of charge state 2 . 3 or 4 were compared to the equivalent protein if observed at time point 0. Changes are based on Ror Rvalues of 0.30 or greater. The fold changes associated with these R values depend on the number of observations and range from 1 4 ratio R 0.36 before total observation correction 4 fold change to a 300 600 R 0.3001 before total observation correction 2 fold change . The total observation correction will shift the R value depending on the different in size of the 2 sample groups and the proportion of observations for a the protein of interest relative to the entire sample. A 10 difference in sample size between the compared samples could increase or decrease the R value by 0.045ii 

ii Changes in 2 out of the 3 or 3 out of the 3 individuals in a designated group induced ischemia or induced necrosis at any time point.

Although the number of unique peptides observed between MS run 1 and 2 were similar the number of peptide observations was reduced in the second run Table 6 . This did not overly affect the number of proteins observed except for the lower abundant proteins. There were 25 different serum samples analyzed giving raise to 650 fractions being analyzed per MS analysis 1300 total MS runs . This resulted in for both MS runs over 41 000 unique peptides being identified with these peptides observed over 410 600 times. Table 7 outlines the proteins that met the criteria above and whether they were observed to change by 2DLC.

An additional level of stringency was added in which the variation within an individual was taken into account. The first tier proteins are found consistently to remain elevated. These are highlighted in bold type. Those proteins with variation between patients or time points were ranked as second tier. Bradykinin peptide was also included rather than kininogen the parent protein which had a weaker correlation based on reducing the fold change required to 1.5 fold. It was the only additional protein that met this weaker criterion. For details regarding the proteins see Example II.

Since 2DLC requires 2 mg of protein or greater for each analysis and the quantity of sample for the atria pacing cohort was limited so pooling was required for each group as outlined in table 8.

Serum was depleted using an affinity chromatography comprised of IgY antibodies specific for 3 major forms of immunoglobins IgG IgA and IgM and then depleted of albumin using our in house affinity chemical depletion method. This was done in order to reduce background of the chromatogram. Protein concentration was determined using BCA assay Pierce . Samples were analyzed on the same set of first and second dimension columns. 2 mg of sample from each time point were sequentially injected on the HPCF first dimension column followed by HPRF second dimension separation. Fractions were collected into 96 well plates and stored at 80 C until analyzed. Extensive washing was carried out between runs to eliminate possible cross over contamination.

Chromatographic images were compared and the same regions domains from multiple pH fractions were combined based on profile and previous identification. Fractions from high salt wash were analyzed individually without pooling. Total 315 fractions from 7 time points were dried down neutralized and digested with trypsin. 50 of the digested sample was applied to the LC LTQ Orbitrap MS.

For LC MS MS experiments on the LTQ Orbitrap ThermoFinnigan San Jose Calif. peptides from the digestion of LC fraction were resuspended in 6 l resuspension buffer 4 acetonitrile in water with 0.1 formic acid . Samples 3 l were loaded onto a 75 um 10 cm BioBasic C18 column New Objective Woburn Mass. . Peptides were eluted into an LTQ Orbitrap ThermoFinnigan San Jose Calif. using an Agilent 1200 nano LC system Agilent Santa Clara Calif. . The HPLC gradient was 5 to 60 B 90 acetonitrile water in 0.1 Formic acid over 30 or 60 min dependent on sample complexity. The mass spectrometer was operated in data dependent mode in which every FT MS scan survey 350 2000 Da was followed by MS MS scans of the 5 most abundant ions.

All mass spectrometry data was analyzed according to the pipeline established and already used in the Van Eyk laboratory designed to meet stringent criteria from the proteomics community. Data from the LTQ Orbitrap was searched against the IPI databases where possible using Sorcerer Sequest Sagen San Jose Calif. . Search results were validated and analyzed using Scaffold Proteome Systems Portland Oreg. . Protein identifications based upon a single peptide observation were handled carefully through manual inspection of the tandem MS MS MS spectra BLAST searching of the sequence to ensure it matches only the reported protein requiring a minimum of 8 amino acids and a peptide probability score of 0.9.

Data analysis flow was based on the following peptide redundancy removed protein name redundancy removed the number of unique peptides and number of observation for each peptide regardless of charge state were determined for each protein and in the cases where the protein was observed in multiple domains as an indicator of potential PTM this was noted and all data for the protein was included for quantitation.

The number of unique peptides and total number of counts number of times each peptide is observed were dependently used to semi quantify each protein that was observed. To deal with proteins which peptides were only observed at some but not all time points resulting in no information a correction factor of 1.25 was used in all R value calculations with a R 0.3 as indicative of change. See 1DLC for more detail.

Over 7500 spectra were analyzed per pooled sample and thus over 52 5000 spectra in total. Spectra were removed based on poor quality and each mass was assigned to a single peptide sequence resulting in 5500 spectra remaining. The number of the proteins that met the criteria are listed below in table 9. See Example II for detailed protein information.

Coronary sinus serum samples were analyzed from patients undergoing atrial pacing. Patients were designated into control ischemia or necrosis groups based on the presence of cTnT at any time point necrosis group and an increase in lactate during the pacing protocol ischemia and necrosis groups . Depleted samples were analyzed for all patients and all time points by 2DE. Depleted samples for 3 patients that were control ischemia or necrosis were analyzed at multiple time points by 1DLC. Pooling of these individuals 2 or 3 from control necrosis and ischemia were required for analyzed by 2DLC due to the amount of protein required for this technology. Proteins selection criteria for each method and MS based quantitation for each method are described above.

The following proteins have been selected as primary or secondary targets based on the robustness of their changes with ischemia and or necrosis and known biological functions. The overlap is schematically shown in . Detailed information about each target is located in Example II.

Peptides used in the MS analysis described in this application are indicated by highlighting shading in the protein sequences shown herein. A skilled worker can use peptides for some of the proteins which have been described previously by others who have performed MS on those proteins. The sequences of peptides is dependent on the particular type of MS used. For example the peptides for MALDI can be different from those in ESI. The studies performed herein were ESI.

Assays are available for total Vitamin D binding protein and for the amount of protein which is either free or bound to actin. This protein is known to be diagnostic for several diseases. It seems to be change with cellular injury and decrease with long term chronic disease. Clinical studies and animal models have shown that Gc globulin has an important role in the clearance of procoagulant actin from the circulation after its release during cell necrosis and tissue injury but it is not known if it is in the heart.

Thyroxine binding globulin binds with high affinity to the thyroid hormone. It is proposed to be a biomarker for senescence and aging. Chronic treatment with perindopril an angiotensin I converting enzyme inhibitor used in cardiac and renal disease enhanced thyroxine binding capacity and possibility the protein level itself. In a study on ACS thyroxine binding globulin was measured in those with acute myocardial infarction after 14 days and there was no change compared to control. It has not been studied in myocardial ischemia or events leding up to MI.

Protein involved in injury response in a number of tissues and is a secreted protein. In a study on the lumican in fibrosis with chronic ischemic and reperfused rat heart. which is not the acute myocardial infaction model but rather would induce heart failure the level of lumican mRNA increased peaking at the fourth week. The protein level was not investigated. This protein is also known to inhibits cell adhesion and neurite outgrowth and be involved in wound healing of the cornea. It plays an important role in cell migration and proliferation during embryonic development tissue repair and tumor growth. It has not been studied in the context of myocardial ischemia or events leading up to MI.

The literature suggests that galectin 7 is involved in apoptosis. It is most likely is secreted and forms dimers. Galectin 7 is an emerging marker involved in the epidermal development of pluristratified epithelia and in epidermal cell migration. It is elevated in wound healing. It has not been studied in the context of myocardial ischemia or events leading up to MI.

Mutations of this protein result in lipoid proteinosis a rare recessive disorder of the skin and mucosae. It binds perlecan MMP9 and fibulin in the skin. It can inhibit MMP9. Auto antibodies to this protein occur with lichen sclerosus. Neither disease is common and so specificity to ischemia is likely. It has not been studied in the context of myocardial ischemia or events leading up to MI.

SGI isoform is found in skeletal muscle as well as epithelial cells. Isoform expression is tissue specific and SGI isoform is found in skeletal muscle as well as epithelial cells. The peptides produced by cleavage of semenogelin I the predominant human semen coagulum protein had high levels of antibacterial activity. It has not been studied in the context of myocardial ischemia or events leading up to MI.

Little is known about this protein or its shorter isoform 2 . It has not been studied in the context of myocardial ischemia or events leading up to MI.

Additional information on function Angiogenin is a normal constituent of the circulation and contained in a vasculature that rarely undergoes proliferation but in some physiological and pathological conditions its levels increase in blood promoting neovascularization. This is a potentially important physiological protein involved in angiogenesis.

Interestingly this protein may play a role in angiogenesis. Recently it has been potentially linked to poor outcome in ACS patients which is a chronic condition that can result from many different etiologies. Plasma angiogenin levels was increased in ACS also with ischemic brain damage. However it has not been studied in the context of myocardial ischemia or events leading up to MI.

Most likely intact protein. Several patients had protein present in multiple fractions and although sequential appears to be due to PTM rather than bleed over between two fractions. E do not know what the PTM is at this time. This protein has not been studied in the context of myocardial ischemia or events leading up to MI.

Interesting protein which may alter bradykinin levels and creatine kinase levels. Involved in early inflammatory response. Has been shown to be elevated after AMI based on activity assays. Although it has been shown that there is a high degree of variability in carboxypeptidase N in healthy subjects and does not change with acute myocardial infarction patients but may reach maximum at 48 h after onset of chest pain. It has not been studied in the context of myocardial ischemia or events leading up to MI.

Peptides observed are unique to Filaggrin and not to Ifapsoriasin or Hornerin . This protein has not been studied in the context of myocardial ischemia or events leading up to MI.

PRG4 proteoglycan 4 is a megakaryocyte stimulating factor and articular superficial zone protein which is expressed in cartilage liver heart lung and bone. It is known to be involved in the lubrication of mammalian joints. This protein has not been studied in the context of myocardial ischemia or events leading up to MI.

Alpha 2 HS glycoprotein precursor Fetuin A Alpha 2 Z globulin Ba alpha 2 glycoprotein Contains Alpha 2 HS glycoprotein chain A Alpha 2 HS glycoprotein chain B .

4. Summary Very high abundant protein and found to change in many diseases and acts as a calcification inhibitor. It inhibits inflammation. It is elevated late after acute myocardial infarction but did not correlate with peak cardiac troponin values. This protein has not been studied in the context of myocardial ischemia or events leading up to MI. N. Protease Serine 3 Mesotrypsinogen IPI00748381

Note this protein was identified in different fractions for ischemia vs AMI. This suggests that this protein has undergone a PTM with AMI and thus is physically distinct from the form present during ischemia. We do not know what this PTM s is at this time.

Uncharacterized protein PRSS3 A6NN76 Mesotrypsin C Q6ISJ4 Mesotrypsinogen C P35030 3 98 homologous and not in region of the observed peptides Isoform C of P35030 P35030 3 Isoform B of P35030 P35030 2. Based on HPRD this is the same protein as trypsinogen IV has same sequence protease serine 4 TRY3 TRY4 trypsin 3 trypsin 4 Brain trypsinogen III pancreatic .

Note In swiss prot mesotrysinogen has three isoforms two of which are longer proteins at the N terminus. We can not distinguish between the three isoforms.

We cannot distinguish between the three highly conserved isoforms of mesotrypsinogen based on MS data.

Mesotrypsin is an inhibitor resistant protease and is secreted from pancreatic juice. Whether it is present in the heart is not known. This protein has not been studied in the context of myocardial ischemia or events leading up to MI.

Note on sequence note initiating Met is cleaved. There maybe a PTM with ischemia as the peptides elute at different fractions at T 1 and T 2. We do not know what the PTM is.

3. Alternative Names Alpha 2 glycoprotein 1 Q5XKQ4 zinc binding zinc alpha 2 glycoprotein P25311 295 AA and 33872 Da over 95 homology 

4. Summary Zinc alpha2 glycoprotein ZAG is a a lipid mobilizing factor found in adipose tissue. It is increased in a number of cancers. Nothing is known about with respect to the heart and myocardial ischemia. It has not been studied in the context of myocardial ischemia or events leading up to MI. P. Desmoglein 1

Casp14 may play a role in ontogenesis and skin physiology. CASP14 cDNA and determined that CASP14 contains 7 exons encoding a 242 amino acid protein 2 CASP14 transcripts CASP14a and CASP14b differ in the C terminus while an alternative splice acceptor site within intron 5 results in a 74 nucleotide insertion in CASP14b. CASP14b lacks homology with the caspase consensus sequence. CASP14 has been found in epidermis hair follicles the sebaceous gland. NO treatment of neonatal mouse cardiomyocytes in culture causes increase in caspase 14. There is also increase in this protein in canine brain during cardiac arrest and resuscitation. This protein has not been studied in the context of myocardial ischemia or events leading up to MI.

The 21 patients in this cohort all underwent aortic valve replacement surgery See . Table 10 provides cohort information of this model.

1DLC analysis was carried out for cohort II 20 patients with two time points . All 1DLC analyses were done in duplicate using the optimized gradient developed to eliminate the interference of the unknown contaminates that eluted at the beginning and end of the run. Optimization was required as the contaminants were not MS compatible and co eluted with proteins found to be interesting in cohort I. The duplicate run for each patient time point were collected into a single plate and stored at 80 C. until analyzed. A total of 80 1DLC runs were carried out 20 2 2 80 2 time points 20 patients in duplicate . The fractions obtained for each 1DLC run were pooled into 16 fractions neutralized and dried down prior to resolublization in buffer compatible for tryptic digestion.

MS analysis for each digested fraction was carried using the LTQ Orbitrap LC MSMS instrument. Each fraction was run in duplicate. A total 1216 MS runs were carried out 19 2 16 2 1216 19 patients 16 fractions per time point two time points in duplicate . For LC MS MS experiments on the LTQ Orbitrap ThermoFinnigan San Jose Calif. peptides were dissolved in 6 l resuspension buffer 4 acetonitrile in water with 0.1 formic acid . Samples 3 l were loaded onto a 75 um 10 cm BioBasic C18 column New Objective Woburn Mass. . Peptides were eluted into an LTQ Orbitrap ThermoFinnigan San Jose Calif. using an Agilent 1200 nano LC system Agilent Santa Clara Calif. . The HPLC gradient was 5 to 60 B 90 acetonitrile water in 0.1 Formic acid over 30 or 60 min depended on sample complexity. The mass spectrometer was operated in data dependent mode in which every FT MS scan survey 350 2000 Da was followed by MS MS scans of the 5 most abundant ions.

Mass spectrometry data were analyzed and data reanalysis was carried out as described in Example 1D2 above.

In order for cohort II to be analyzed optimization of the 1DLC gradient was required to resolve a contaminating peak eluting early on the chromatogram. The contaminating peak overlaid a region in which we found several potential biomarkers and resulted in suppression of the peptides of interest.

343 non redundant proteins were compared. Table 12 shows those proteins which were most significantly increased in T6 compared to T0 for cohort II.

Some additional proteins were found to be elevated in a subset of the patients in cohort II that exhibit ischemia. See Table 14 below for details.

Has been used in treatment of retinal ischemic injury. As well increased levels are observed with retinal diseases and diabetes but none have been related to heart disease including myocardial ischemia.

Protein Z was recently shown to act as an essential cofactor for protein Z dependent protease inhibitor a potent downregulator of coagulation Factor Xa. Low levels of protein Z have been correlated with increased risk of stroke. However protein Z dependent protease inhibitor was not studied. This protein has not been linked to myocardial ischemia or events leading up to MI.

Catalase is an important enzyme in the heart s regulation of oxidative stress. It has been linked to preconditioning in the heart tissue. As a serum marker it has not been linked to myocardial ischemia or events leading up to MI.

In a swine model of myocardial injury studied at 3 24 72 or 168 hrs it was shown that there was an increased level of mRNA of IGFBP 6 at all time points. In situ hybridisation identified myocytes as the main producers of IGFBP 6 mRNA. However the protein itself was not investigated. As well this protein was found to be elevated in a young multiple myeloma patient with high output cardiac failure. To date there has been no study indicating the association of this protein with myocardial ischemia or events leading up to MI.

Antibodies to two or more epitopes on each protein will be generated and used to develop a sandwich ELISA assay as single or multiplex that is specific and sensitive for the analyte. The analyte will either be peptide protein fragment or protein and will be used to generate standard curve. Analysis will be carried out using conventional ELISA or on a Luminex or Mesoscale platform. Assays will be carried out at least in duplicate. For MRM assays peptides generated most likely by trypsin chymotrypsin or Lys C that are unique to the protein of interest and showing high MS signal response prototypic peptides which will help maximize the sensitivity of the assay. 2. Selection of predominant peptide fragments specific MS MS for the parent peptide useful MRM transition . 3. For each peptide fragment pair optimization of specific MS parameters e.g. the collision energy to maximize the signal response sensitivity. 4. Validation of the MRM assay to confirm peptide identity e.g. by acquiring a full MS2 spectrum of the peptide in the triple quadrupole MS instrument used for MRM. 5. Extraction of the final coordinates of the MRM assay including the selected peptide and peptide fragments the corresponding mass to charge ratios the fragment intensity ratios the associated collision energy and the chromatographic elution time to be optionally used in time constrained MRM analyses. We will add isotopically labeled internal peptide standards with known concentrations determined by amino acid analysis to facilitate absolute quantitation of selected peptides. Assays will be performed on a triple quadruple mass spectrometer at least in duplicate.

From the foregoing description one skilled in the art can easily ascertain the essential characteristics of this invention and without departing from the spirit and scope thereof can make changes and modifications of the invention to adapt it to various usage and conditions and to utilize the present invention to its fullest extent. The preceding preferred specific embodiments are to be construed as merely illustrative and not limiting of the scope of the invention in any way whatsoever. The entire disclosure of all applications patents and publications including provisional patent application 61 128 688 filed May 23 2008 cited above and in the figures are hereby incorporated in their entirety by reference.

