---

title: Camptothecin analogs and methods of preparation thereof
abstract: 

in racemic form, enantiomerically enriched form or enantiomerically pure form, and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof.

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07982041&OS=07982041&RS=07982041
owner: University of Kentucky Research Foundation
number: 07982041
owner_city: Lexington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090416
---
This application is divisional patent application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 805 169 filed May 22 2007 which is a divisional application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 919 068 filed Aug. 16 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 220 860 which is a divisional application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 164 326 filed Jun. 6 2002 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 809 103 which is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 728 031 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 410 731 filed Nov. 30 2000 which is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 290 019 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 207 832 filed Apr. 9 1999 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with government support under grant number RO1 GM031678 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates to novel compounds and methods of preparation thereof and particularly to E ring expanded camptothecin derivatives or analogs and to methods of preparation of such camptothecin analogs.

Camptothecins are DNA topoisomerase I inhibitors now being used as anticancer drugs. Topotecan tpt and CPT 11 are the first two members in the camptothecin family to gain Food and Drug Administration full approval status topotecan in 1996 as second line therapy for advanced epithelial ovarian cancer topotecan again in 1998 for the treatment of small cell lung cancer CPT 11 in 1998 as first line therapy for colon cancer . Several other analogs of the camptothecin family such as GI 147211C DX8951f 9 aminocamptothecin 9 AC and 9 nitrocamptothecin are in various stages of pre clinical and clinical evaluation. Each of the campothecins in clinical use undergoes relatively rapid hydrolysis in the bloodstream resulting in a marked loss of anticancer activity. It is the key hydroxylactone pharmacophore within clinically relevant camptothecins that hydrolyzes at physiological pH to yield a biologically inactive and potentially toxic hydroxy carboxylate form. Fassberg J. and Stella V. J. A Kinetic and Mechanistic Study of the Hydrolysis of Camptothecin and Some Analogues 81 676 684 1992 Hertzberg R. P. Caranfa M. J. and Hecht S. M. On the Mechanism of Topoisomerase I Inhibition by Camptothecin Evidence for Binding to an Enzyme DNA Complex 28 4629 4638 1989 Hsiang Y H. and Liu L. F. Identification of Mammalian DNA Topoisomerase I as an Intracellular Target of the Anticancer Drug Camptothecin 48 1722 1726 1988 and Jaxel C. Kohn K. W. Wani M. C. Wall M. E. and Pommier Y. Structure Activity Study of Camptothecin Derivatives on Mammalian Topoisomerase I Evidence for a Specific Receptor Site and a Relation to Antitumor Activity 49 5077 5082 1989 . References set forth herein including those set forth above may facilitate understanding of the present invention. Inclusion of a reference herein is not intended to an does no constitute an admission that the reference is prior art with respect to the present invention.

Recent research efforts have shown that agents such as 9 aminocamptothecin and camptothecin cpt display very poor stabilities in human blood due to high affinity binding interactions between their carboxylate forms and human serum albumin HSA . Burke T. G Mi Z. Jiang Y. and Munshi C. B. The Important Role of Albumin in Determining the Relative Human Blood Stabilities of the Camptothecin Anticancer Drugs 84 518 519 1995 Burke T. G. and Mi Z. The Structural Basis of Camptothecin Interactions with Human Serum Albumin Impact on Drug Stability 37 40 46 1994 Mi Z. and Burke T. G. Differential interactions of Camptothecin Lactone and Carboxylate Forms with Human Blood Components Biochemistry 33 10325 10336 1994 and Mi Z. Malak H. and Burke T. G. Reduced Albumin Binding Promotes the Stability and Activity of Topotecan in Human Blood 34 13722 13728 1995 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference. Frequency domain lifetime fluorometry experiments revealed that human serum albumin HSA preferentially binds camptothecin carboxylate with over a 100 fold higher affinity compared to camptothecin lactone. Mi Z. and Burke T. G. Marked Interspecies Variations Concerning the Interactions of Camptothecin with Serum Albumins A Frequency Domain Fluorescence Spectroscopic Study 33 12540 12545 1994 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference. This differential binding of carboxylate over lactone results in camptothecin and 9 AC opening more rapidly and completely in the presence of HSA than in the absence of the protein. In human plasma pH 7.4 and 37 C. camptothecin and 9 AC both open rapidly and essentially completely to almost negligible 0.2 lactone levels at equilibrium. While the presence of HSA promotes lactone ring opening for camptothecin and 9 AC red blood cells and lipid bilayers in general preferentially bind the electroneutral lactone forms of camptothecins over their respective negatively charged carboxylate lactone forms. Burke T. G. Staubus A. E. Mishra A. K. and Malak H. Liposomal Stabilization of Camptothecin s Lactone Ring 114 8318 8319 1992 and Burke T. G. Mishra A. K. Wani M. and Wall M. Lipid Bilayer Partitioning and Stability of Camptothecin Drugs 32 5352 5364 1993 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference. Drug interactions with erythrocytes thereby promote active lactone levels in blood.

Recently Layergne et al. have shown that expansion of the E ring of camptothecin to produce a homocamptothecin enhances the solution stability of camptothecin while maintaining anticancer activity. Layergne O. Lesueur Ginot L. Rodas F. P. Kasprzyk P. G. Pommier J. Demarquay D. Prevost G. Ulibarri G. Rolland A. Schiano Liberatore A. M. Harnett J. Pons D. Camara J. Bigg D. Homocamptothecins Synthesis and Antitumor Activity of Novel E Ring Modified Camptothecin Analogs J. Med. Chem. 41 5410 5419 1998 and Layergne O. Lesueur Ginot L. Rodas F. P. and Bigg D. An E Ring Modified Camptothecin With Potent Antiproliferative and Topoisomerase I inhibitory Activities. Bioorg. Med. Chem. Lett. 7 2235 2238 1997 . The modification to the E ring in the studies of Layergne et al. involved insertion of a methylene spacer between the 20 OH functionality and the carboxyl group of the naturally occurring six membered hydroxylactone of camptothecin. Incorporation of the new 7 membered hydroxylactone ring into camptothecin was found to improve the solution and plasma stability of the agent.

The structure of the homocamptothecin of Layergne et al. and the numbering system used to describe such compounds are shown below 

Although substantial strides have been made in the development of the camptothecin family of drugs it remains very desirable to develop improved compounds in this family of drugs and to develop improved synthetic routes for producing such drugs.

Rand Rtogether may for example form a group of the formula O CH O wherein n represents the integer 1 or 2. Likewise Rand Rtogether may for example form a group of the formula O CH O wherein n represents the integer 1 or 2.

Ris preferably an ethyl group an allyl group a benzyl group or a propargyl group. Most preferably Ris an ethyl group. Preferably Ris H.

In one embodiment Rand Rare methyl groups Ris a tert butyl group or a methyl group Ris H and Ris H. In this embodiment Rmay for example be H NHor OH.

Ris preferably H. Ris preferably H or an alkyl group. Most preferably Ris H or C O R wherein Ris an alkyl group. Most preferably Ris H.

Still further the present invention provides a method of synthesizing a compound having the following formula 

As indicated above all compounds of the present invention including the hydroxylactone group can exist in racemic form enantiomerically enriched form or enantiomerically pure form. The formulas of such compounds as set forth herein cover and or include each such form.

The term radical precursor s as used herein and as well known to those skilled in the art refers generally to those functional groups that cleave to generate radicals under standard conditions of chain or non chain radical reactions. Common radical precursors are the halogens except fluorine carboxylic acids and derivatives thereof such as thiohydroxamates selenophenyl groups diazonium salts and the like. See for example Giese B. Pergamon Oxford 1986 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The terms alkyl aryl and other groups refer generally to both unsubstituted and substituted groups unless specified to the contrary. Unless otherwise specified alkyl groups are hydrocarbon groups and are preferably C C that is having 1 to 15 carbon atoms alkyl groups and more preferably C Calkyl groups and can be branched or unbranched acyclic or cyclic. The above definition of an alkyl group and other definitions apply also when the group is a substituent on another group for example an alkyl group as a substituent of an alkylamino group or a dialkylamino group . The term aryl refers to phenyl or naphthyl. As used herein the terms halogen or halo refer to fluoro chloro bromo and iodo.

The term alkoxy refers to OR wherein Ris an alkyl group. The term aryloxy refers to OR wherein Ris an aryl group. The term acyl refers to C O R. The term alkenyl refers to a straight or branched chain hydrocarbon group with at least one double bond preferably with 2 15 carbon atoms and more preferably with 2 10 carbon atoms for example CH CHRor CHCH CHR . The term alkynyl refers to a straight or branched chain hydrocarbon group with at least one triple bond preferably with 2 15 carbon atoms and more preferably with 2 10 carbon atoms for example C CRor CH C CR . The terms alkylene alkenylene and alkynylene refer to bivalent forms of alkyl alkenyl and alkynyl groups respectively.

The groups set forth above can be substituted with a wide variety of substituents to synthesize homocamptothecin analogs retaining activity. For example alkyl groups may preferably be substituted with a group or groups including but not limited to a benzyl group a phenyl group an alkoxy group a hydroxy group an amino group including for example free amino groups alkylamino dialkylamino groups and arylamino groups an alkenyl group an alkynyl group and an acyloxy group. In the case of amino groups NRR Rand Rare preferably independently hydrogen an acyl group an alkyl group or an aryl group. Acyl groups may preferably be substituted with that is Ris an alkyl group a haloalkyl group for example a perfluoroalkyl group an alkoxy group an amino group and a hydroxy group. Alkynyl groups and alkenyl groups may preferably be substituted with that is Rand Rare preferably a group or groups including but not limited to an alkyl group an alkoxyalkyl group an amino alkyl group and a benzyl group.

Amino and hydroxy groups may include protective groups as known in the art. Preferred protective groups for amino groups include tert butyloxycarbonyl formyl acetyl benzyl p methoxybenzyloxycarbonyl trityl. Other suitable protecting groups as known to those skilled in the art are disclosed in Greene T. Wuts P. G. M. Wiley 1991 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

In general R R R R Rand Rare preferably not excessively bulky to maintain activity of the resultant camptothecin analog. Preferably therefore R R R R Rand Rindependently have a molecular weight less than approximately 250. More preferably R R R R Rand Rindependently have a molecular weight less than approximately 200.

Some of the camptothecin analogs of the present invention can be prepared for pharmaceutical use as salts with inorganic acids such as but not limited to hydrochloride hydrobromide sulfate phosphate and nitrate. The camptothecin analogs can also be prepared as salts with organic acids such as but not limited to acetate tartrate fumarate succinate citrate methanesulfonate p toluenesulfonate and stearate. Other acids can be used as intermediates in the preparation of the compounds of the present invention and their pharmaceutically acceptable salts.

For purification administration or other purposes the E ring the lactone ring may be opened with alkali metal such as but not limited to sodium hydroxide or calcium hydroxide to form opened E ring analogs of compounds of formula 1 as set forth in the compounds of formula 2 . The intermediates thus obtained are more soluble in water and may be purified to produce after treatment with an acid a purified form of the camptothecin analogs of the present invention.

The E ring may also be modified to produce analogs of compounds of formula 1 with different solubility profiles in water or other solvents. Methods to achieve this goal include but are not limited to opening the E ring with hydroxide or a water soluble amino group or functionalizing the hydroxy group at position 20 of the E ring with a water soluble group such as a polyethylene glycol group or an acyl group. Such groups can be introduced either on the homocamptothecin derivative or at an earlier stage in the synthesis. The analogs thus prepared act as pro drugs. In other words these analogs regenerate the compounds of formula 1 with the closed E ring structure when administered to a living organism. See Greenwald R. B. et al. 39 1938 1996 . Alkyl esters resulting from acylation at C20 for example will result in more lipophilic pro drugs that may not hydrolyze until the alkyl group is enzymatically cleaved.

The present invention also provides a method of treating a patient which comprises administering a pharmaceutically effective amount of a compound of formulas 1 and or 2 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. The compound may for example be administered to a patient afflicted with cancer and or leukemia. The compounds of the present invention may also act as antiviral for example anti HIV agents and antiparasitic agents. The compounds of formulas 1 and or 2 may be administered by any conventional route of administration including but not limited to intravenously intramuscularly orally subcutaneously intratumorally intradermally and parenterally. The pharmaceutically effective amount or dosage is preferably between 0.01 to 60 mg of one of the compounds of formulas 1 and 2 per kg of body weight. More preferably the pharmaceutically effective amount or dosage is preferably between 0.1 to 40 mg of one of the compounds of formulas 1 and 2 per kg of body weight. In general a pharmaceutically effective amount or dosage contains an amount of one of the compounds of formulas 1 and or 2 effective to display antileukemic antitumor anticancer antiviral and or antiparisitic behavior. Pharmaceutical compositions containing as an active ingredient one of the compounds of formulas 1 and or 2 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof in association with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent are also within the scope of the present invention.

The present invention also provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising any of the compounds of formulas 1 and 2 and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The composition may for example contain between 0.1 mg and 3 g and preferably between approximately 0.1 mg and 500 mg of the compounds of formulas 1 and or 2 and may be constituted into any form suitable for the mode of administration.

The structural modifications of the present invention were found to prevent high affinity binding between the carboxylate form of a camptothecin analog and HSA while at the same time promoting lactone interactions with erythrocytes. An additional consideration in the design of plasma and blood stable camptothecins concerns the structure of the E ring. The A B E or B E ring modified camptothecins of the present invention 1 display enhanced stability in the presence of HSA through elimination or minimization of the highly preferential binding by HSA of carboxylate over lactone forms 2 display high levels of lipophilicity which promote reversible associations of the lactone forms of the drugs with red blood cells thereby slowing and restricting the extent of drug hydrolysis and 3 display improved stability in aqueous solution.

We further discovered that the novel blood stable silyl substituted homocamptothecin referred to herein as hydroxylactone silatecans or homosilatecans hST derivatives of the present invention can be prepared by significant modification of a total synthesis approaches set forth in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 212 178 entitled CAMPTOTHECIN ANALOGS AND METHODS OF PREPARATION THEREOF and filed Dec. 15 1998 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 007 872 entitled NOVEL INTERMEDIATES IN THE SYNTHESIS OF CAMPTOTHECIN AND RELATED COMPOUNDS AND SYNTHESIS THEREOF and filed Jan. 15 1998 the disclosure of which are incorporated herein by reference. Novel intermediates were synthesized to carry out the cascade radical annulation of the present invention.

Several model compounds of the present invention as described in the formula below were studied extensively.

Synthesis of the novel A B E ring modified and B E ring modified camptothecins of the present invention has led to the identification of the most blood stable camptothecins displaying intrinsic potency yet to be identified. An additional benefit of these new agents is that they do not display any significant interspecies variations in blood stabilities such as those of 9 AC and camptothecin described in Mi Z. and Burke T. G. Marked Interspecies Variations Concerning the Interactions of Camptothecin with Serum Albumins A Frequency Domain Fluorescence Spectroscopic Study 33 12540 12545 1994 . This very attractive feature should greatly facilitate the drug development process and the translation of experimental observations and dosing schedules developed in animal models to the clinic.

The compounds of formula 1 in the present invention can be prepared according to the synthetic schemes outlined in . shows the synthesis of a key iodopyridone 9 which can be used to make the compounds of formula 1. The synthesis of 9 starts from enol ether 3 an intermediate in the synthesis of camptothecin and analogs. See U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 007 872 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference. Dihydroxylation followed by oxidative cleavage provides the keto formate 5 which is then extended by a Reformatsky reaction to give 6. Conveniently the formyl group is cleaved in this reaction and acid promoted cleavage of the t butyl ester directly results in hydroxylactone 7. This compound is then converted to the iodopyridone 9 by a sequence of 1 iodinative desilylation and 2 demethylation.

Layergne and coworkers disclose two ways to make homosilatecan derivatives but both have serious limitations. The first involves the conversion of a standard camptothecin derivative to a homocamptothecin derivative by a series of steps involving disassembly of the normal lactone and reassembly of the homologated lactone. This route is limited because it requires an existing camptothecin to start. Furthermore many existing camptothecin derivatives bear substituents that would not be expected to survive the harsh conditions of the refashioning of the lactone. This process requires reducing oxidizing strong acid and strong base steps. The second route involves a total synthesis using a palladium catalyzed cyclization to form ring C. This route is limited by the availability of A ring precursors and by the ability of the substituents thereon to survive the many subsequent steps of the synthesis. Furthermore the synthesis does not appear to offer the possibility to introducing many B ring substituents including the substituents described herein.

In contrast the radical cascade synthetic schemes of the present invention are much more tolerant and flexible and can be used to make homocamptothecin derivatives with many A B or A B substitution patterns as shown for example in . Generally various reagents can be used in the radical cascade including but not limited to hexamethylditin hexamethyldisilane or tetrakis trimethylsilyl silane. The source of energy for this reaction can be a sun lamp or an ultraviolet lamp. The temperature is preferably set between approximately 25 and 150 C. More preferably the temperature is set at approximately 70 C. There are generally no limitations upon the choice of solvent used other than inertness to the radical cascade. Preferred solvents include benzene toluene benzotrifluoride acetonitrile THF and tert butanol. Also there is very broad latitude in the choice of substituents on the alkyne R and the isonitrile R R in the synthetic schemes of the present invention because of the mildness of the reaction conditions. In addition in rare cases where suitable propargyl derivatives are not readily prepared allyl derivatives can be substituted instead and the same final products are formed albeit in lower yield.

The substituent on C20 R can also be widely varied since it derives from readily available allyl alcohols. Substituted esters can also be used in the Reformatsky reaction to provide compounds with substitutents on C20a R . While the compounds of this invention might be used in racemic form for chemotherapy it is more preferable to use samples that are exclusively or predominately the biologically active enantiomer at C20. Because of a change in priorities in the Cahn Ingold Prelogs Rules for assignment of absolute configuration the C20 S enantiomer of a standard camptothecin generally has the same relative configuration as the C20 R enantiomer of the corresponding homocamptothecin. Racemic or enantiomerically enriched samples of homocamptothecin derivatives can be separated into their individual components by standard methods of liquid chromatography using commercially available chiral columns. See Layergne O. et al. Homocamptothecins Synthesis and Antitumor Activity of Novel E Ring Modified Camptothecin Analogs 41 5410 5419 1998 .

Human Blood Stabilities of Camptothecins and the Basis for the Rational Design of Blood Stable Homosilatecans with High Potency.

Recently the intrinsic fluorescent emissions from the lactone and carboxylate forms of camptothecin and related analogs have been studied in order to elucidate their markedly different interactions with human blood components. Burke T. G. and Mi Z. Ethyl substitution at the 7 position extends the half life of 10 hydroxycamptothecin in the presence of human serum albumin 36 2580 2582 1993 Burke T. G. Mishra A. K. Wani M. C. and Wall M. E. Lipid bilayer partitioning and stability of camptothecin drugs 32 5352 5364 1993 Burke T. G. and Mi Z. Preferential Binding of the Carboxylate Form of Camptothecin by Human Serum Albumin 1993a 212 285 287 Burke T. G. and Mi Z. The Structural Basis of Camptothecin Interactions with Human Serum Albumin Impact on Drug Stability 1994 37 40 46 Burke T. G. Munshi C. B. Mi Z. and Jiang Y. The Important Role of Albumin in Determining the Relative Human Blood Stabilities of the Camptothecin Anticancer Drugs 1995 84 518 519 Mi Z. and Burke T. G. Differential Interactions of Camptothecin Lactone and Carboxylate Forms with Human Blood Components 1994a 33 10325 10336 Mi Z. and Burke T. G. Marked Interspecies Variations Concerning the Interactions of Camptothecin with Serum Albumins A Frequency Domain Fluorescence Spectroscopic Study 1994b 33 12540 12545 and Mi Z. Malak H. and Burke T. G. Reduced Albumin Binding Promotes the Stability and Activity of Topotecan in Human Blood 1995 34 13722 13728 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference.

In phosphate buffered saline PBS at pH 7.4 frequency domain fluorescence lifetime spectroscopy reveals that human serum albumin HSA preferentially binds the carboxylate form of camptothecin with a 200 fold higher affinity than the lactone form. These interactions result in camptothecin opening more rapidly and completely in the presence of HSA than in the absence of the protein. In human plasma pH 7.4 and 37 C. camptothecin lactone opens rapidly and completely to the carboxylate form with a tvalue of 11 min and an almost negligible percentage of lactone at equilibrium value of 0.2 . In whole blood versus plasma camptothecin displayed enhanced stability tvalue of 22 min and a percentage of lactone at equilibrium value of 5.3 . The enhanced stability of camptothecin lactone in human blood was found to be a result of drug associations with the lipid bilayers of red blood cells. Camptothecin binds erythrocyte membranes the drug localizes within the acyl chain region and accordingly remains protected from hydrolysis.

The human blood stabilities of the several camptothecin analogs of clinical interest have also been compared. As was observed in the case of camptothecin 9 aminocamptothecin 9 AC was observed to hydrolyze almost completely 99 in PBS solution containing HSA. Although no attempt was made to spectroscopically quantify the relative binding affinities of the lactone and carboxylate forms of the 9 amino congener because of the significantly reduced fluorescence quantum yields of 9 AC lactone and carboxylate species relative to camptothecin HPLC data were consistent with HSA preferentially binding the carboxylate form of this agent over its lactone form. In plasma it was observed that 99.5 of the 9 amino analog of camptothecin converted to carboxylate a finding which again closely parallels stability data obtained using camptothecin. In whole blood 

In contrast to the low levels of lactone remaining at equilibrium in whole human blood for camptothecin and 9 aminocamptothecin 

These observations indicate that HSA plays an important role in determining the relative human blood stabilities of the camptothecins. In the cases of camptothecin and 9 aminocamptothecin the protein acts as a sink for the carboxylate drug form binding the opened ring species and thereby shifting the lactone carboxylate equilibria to the right. However in the cases of topotecan CPT 11 and SN 38 no such preferential binding of the carboxylate drug form by HSA is observed. Opposite to the situation with camptothecin and its 9 amino analogue HSA preferentially binds the lactone form of SN 38 which thereby promotes higher circulatory levels of this biologically active species.

The rapid and extensive loss of active drug that occurs with clinically relevant camptothecins indicates that it would be highly advantageous to identify camptothecins with improved human blood stabilities.

In the present studies we modified camptothecin in the A and B rings with the effect of 1 reducing protein binding 2 enhancing lipophilicity and 3 producing both a concomitant reduction in carboxylate binding to human albumin while also enhancing lipophilicity. We also included an expanded E ring in the design of the present compounds. Our studies have led to the design of novel A B E ring modified camptothecins which are the most blood stable and intrinsically potent camptothecin analogs yet to be identified with blood stability parameters outcompeting the prior art compound homocamptothecin as well A B ring modified camptothecin analogs containing a conventional hydroxylactone functionality. The novel camptothecin analogs of the present invention display unique properties such as superior human blood stabilities in combination with high anticancer activities.

Fluorescence Anisotropy Titration Demonstrates that the Novel Homosilatecans of the Present Invention Display a Broad Range of Equilibrium Association Constants for Lipid Vesicles and that E Ring Expansion Enhances the Lipophilicity of Silatecans.

The intrinsic fluorescent nature of the lactone and carboxylate forms of homosilatecans allows for the sensitive method of steady state fluorescence anisotropy titration to be employed to determine the strength of the binding interactions of the various analogs with lipid bilayers.

A steady state fluorescence anisotropy a measurement is related to the rotational rate of the fluorescent molecule through the Perrin Equation 1 where ais the limiting fluorescence anisotropy in the absence of depolarizing rotations is the excited state lifetime and is the rotational correlation time of the fluorophore. The above equation states that changes in either the or values of a fluorescent compound can modulate its steady state anisotropy.

The excited state lifetime values of camptothecin in PBS glycerol and methanol were examined at 37 C. The lifetime values were determined to be 4.7 ns 3.8 ns and 3.5 ns respectively. Similarly the lifetime value of camptothecin when associated with DMPC bilayers was measured at 37 C. and the average value for membrane bound drug was found to be 3.7 ns.

Thus the lifetime measurements described above indicate that the excited state lifetime of camptothecin is relatively insensitive to alterations in microenvironment for example a change in solvent or fluorophore relocation from an aqueous milieu to a phospholipid membrane . For a fluorophore having a value that remains relatively constant during a transition which strongly impacts on its rotational motion such as a change in solvent viscosity or fluorophore binding to large macromolecular assemblies such as liposomal particles the Perrin equation indicates a direct relationship between a and values will exist that is as the value of the fluorescent compound increases then so too does its steady state anisotropy value .

It has been shown that the steady state fluorescence anisotropy values of camptothecin analogs and novel homosilatecans are highly sensitive to solvent viscosity and to associations with small unilamellar lipid vesicles. For example topotecan has an a value of 0.008 in PBS but its a value increases 9 fold and 40 fold in the viscous solvents octanol and glycerol respectively. A 21 fold enhancement in the a value of camptothecin is observed upon binding of drug to vesicles composed of either DMPC or DMPG. Because of the sensitivity of a of the camptothecin drugs to membrane associations the method of fluorescence anisotropy titration was employed to study the equilibrium binding of camptothecin analogs with lipid bilayers. The experiment includes determining the a values for a set of samples where the drug concentration in each was held constant typically 1 or 2 M while the lipid concentration among the members of a set was varied from 0 to 0.29 M.

As a consequence of the brilliant fluorescence emissions from the newly synthesized homosilatecans a summary of the spectral parameters can be found in Table 1 the lipid bilayer adsorption isotherms summarized in were relatively free from any background signal. The method of fluorescence anisotropy titration was used to construct the adsorption isotherms. The experiments were conducted at drug concentrations of 1 M in PBS buffer 37 C. . The anisotropy values of DB 38 DB 90 and DB 91 titrated much more rapidly than those of camptothecin or topotecan indicating that the novel homosilatecans have much stronger interactions with these membranes than camptothecin and topotecan. Because of the potential of the lactone ring of the homosilatecans and camptothecins to hydrolyze in PBS anisotropy values at each lipid concentration were determined immediately approx. 1 min. following the addition of the lactone form of each agent to the liposome suspension as to minimize any possibility of conversion to the carboxylate form. Using drug concentrations of 1 M and long pass filters to isolate emitted light from background signal that is scattered exciting light and extraneous fluorescence signal resulting from the possible presence of impurities signal levels from drugs dissolved in PBS buffer were typically 99.97 in the absence of membrane and greater than 98 in the presence of membrane. Adsorption isotherms were used to determine overall association constants for the homosilatecan silatecan and camptothecin drugs. Overall association constants are defined as where A represents the concentration of bound drug A represents the concentration of free drug and L represents the total lipid concentration in the vesicle suspension. This equation is valid when the concentration of free lipid is approximately equal to the concentration of total lipid that is the concentration of free lipid is in significant excess over the concentration of bound drug . Provided this condition is satisfied K may be determined from the inverse of the slope of a double reciprocal plot. In such a double reciprocal plot 1 fraction of the total drug bound is plotted vs. 1 lipid concentration with a y intercept value of 1 for a system displaying binding site homogeneity . Such double reciprocal plots for the associations of the new homosilatecans analogs both lactone and carboxylate forms with DMPC and DMPG small unilamellar vesicle SUV preparations were linear with good correlation coefficients. The linearity of these plots as well as the corresponding plots for drug associations with other types of membrane preparations indicates that fluorophore binding at these lipid concentrations is adequately described by the above equation.

The studies summarized in Table 2 examine the structural basis of homosilatecan associations for lipid bilayers. Two types of membranes were included in these studies which were conducted under near physiological conditions of pH and temperature these membranes include fluid phase and electroneutral L dimyristoylphosphatidylcholine DMPC and fluid phase and negatively charged L dimyristoylphosphatidylglycerol DMPG . DMPC and DMPG have identical chain length but the charges on their head groups differ.

In the studies of Table 2 binding isotherms were constructed using the method of fluorescence anisotropy titration as discussed above and K values were determined from the slopes of the double reciprocal plots. The K values are subject to 10 uncertainty. One of the most striking features of the data contained in Table 2 is the strong modulation which can be achieved through the creation of A B E ring modified camptothecins for example the homosilatecans known as DB 38 DB 90 and DB 91 or B E ring modified camptothecins for example the homosilatecan known as DB 81 . Homosilatecans containing either a sole substitution at the 7 position or dual substitution at the 7 and 10 positions have been created and found to display very high lipophilicities. Included in Table 2 are camptothecin compounds topotecan and camptothecin . For DB 81 the lipophilicity for DMPC membranes relative to corresponding value for topotecan increases over 1 400 fold. Data for these agents were included to show the highly lipophilic nature of the new homocamptothecins relative to compounds such as topotecan and camptothecin. From Table 2 it is clear that the compounds of the present invention are much more lipophilic than either camptothecin or topotecan.

Other interesting and unexpected findings are apparent upon inspection of the data contained in Table 2. Comparison of the Kvalues for two homosilatecan with their corresponding silatecan analogs where the E ring systems are hydroxylactone versus hydroxylactone moieties respectively indicate that the homocamptothecins display greater lipophilicity. For example the Kvalues of the silatecan counterparts of DB 38 CHJ 792 K 820 M and DB 91 DB 67 K 2 500 M are approximately 2 fold to 3 fold less than for the corresponding homosilatecans. Thus for DB 38 and DB 91 the expanded E ring is a favorable consideration for membrane binding which in turn promotes drug stability in human blood.

Another surprising trend was observed for the homosilatecans when the carboxylate forms of the drugs were studied. A 3 fold decrease in the affinity for DMPC upon the opening of the lactone ring of camptothecin has previously been observed. Burke T. G. Mishra A. K. Wani M. C. and Wall M. E. Lipid bilayer partitioning and stability of camptothecin drugs 32 5352 5364 1993 . For the DB 90 and DB 91 homocamptothecins we observe a 10 fold decrease in DMPC binding upon ring opening. Hence the homosilatecans not only display markedly enhanced lipophilicity but the levels of differential binding between the lactone and carboxylate forms appear to be significantly greater 10 fold versus 3 fold relative to camptothecins containing hydroxylactone ring systems. The two considerations described above high lipophilicity and higher differential binding of lactone over carboxylate forms are contributing factors to the optimized blood stabilities which the homosilatecans display over camptothecin and homocamptothecin.

Direct Fluorescence Spectral Assessment of the Extensive Membrane Interactions of the DB 91 Homosilatecan with Red Blood Cells.

The emission maxima for DB 91 in PBS is 554 nm. In the presence of red blood cells a peak with a significantly lower value is observed indicating that the agent is capable of partitioning into the red blood cell membranes. The membranes of the red blood cells provide a hydrophobic microenvironment where the protonated excited state complexes can form and fluoresce from. Comparison of the emission spectra of DB 91 in the presence of human erythrocytes with that of clinically relevant 7 ethyl 10 hydroxycamptothecin SN 38 as illustrated in indicate there is more extensive protonated excited state complex formation in the case of DB 91. Similar to the studies of the spectra of were recorded in front face cuvettes at 37 C. using an SN 38 concentration of 10 M and exciting light of 370 nm These findings corroborate model membrane studies indicating the membrane binding of SN 38 is significantly less than the extensive interactions noted for DB 91 SN 38 displays a Kvalue of 300 Mwhereas DB 91 displays a Kvalue of 8 000 M . From our spectral studies we conclude the novel homosilatcan DB 91 is a more lipophilic erythrocyte interactive agent than the FDA approved SN 38.

Homosilatecans Display Improved Stabilities in Aqueous Solution Relative to Camptothecins Containing hydroxylactone Pharmacophores.

Although hydrolysis is observed at pH values of 7.4 8.0 and 9.0 our data indicate that the lactone ring of homosilatecans is less labile that is significantly slower in undergoing hydrolysis relative to both silatecans and camptothecins containing the conventional hydroxylactone ring moiety.

In all cases the agents containing the expanded E ring or homosilatecan structures displayed markedly enhanced stability. The stability parameters for the homosilatecans are summarized in Table 3. The data indicate that the lactone ring of homosilatecans is less labile that is significantly slower in undergoing hydrolysis relative to the hydroxylactone ring moiety contained in both silatecans and camptothecins. For silatecans and camptothecins such as topotecan and camptothecin approximately 12 of lactone remains at equilibrium after 3 hours whereas greater than 80 lactone remains for each of the homosilatecans under identical incubation conditions.

Our studies demonstrate that both lipophilic as well as more water soluble homosilatecans display improved stabilities over homocamptothecin that contains no substitutions in the A and B rings. See Layergne et al. Homocamptothecins Synthesis and Antitumor Activity of Novel E Ring Modified Camptothecin Analogues J. Med. Chem. 41 5410 5419 1998 . Thus the present invention indicates that substitution of the A and B ring of homocamptothecin is a favorable factor with respect to blood stabilities. The likely explanation is that the unsubstituted homocamptothecin carboxylate like camptothecin carboxylate binds HSA preferentially in the carboxylate form and effectively shifts the lactone carboxylate equilibria to the right.

Our results indicate that dramatically improved human plasma stability can be realized by combining the hydroxylactone pharmacophore with the following concomitant structural changes 1 B ring modification such as a silyl or an silylalkyl functionality at position 7 e.g. DB 81 2 A ring modification such as the structural modifications contained in topotecan water solubilizing changes such as inclusion of 9 dimethylaminomethyl and 10 hydroxy functionalities disfavor carboxylate binding to HSA and 3 combined substitution in both the A and the B ring that includes for example a silyl or silylalkyl substituent at position 7 e.g. DB 90 and DB 91 . See also Mi Z. Malak H. and Burke T. G. Reduced Albumin Binding Promotes the Stability and Activity of Topotecan in Human Blood 34 13722 13728 1995 . The compounds of the latter example display high lipophilicities and reduced specific interactions between the carboxylate drug form and HSA both factors contributing to improved plasma stability.

The human blood stability values noted for DB 81 DB 90 and DB 91 are the highest yet to be measured for a intrinsically potent camptothecin analog. The greater than 80 lactone values following 3 hrs. of incubation compare very favorably relative to the corresponding percent lactone levels in whole human blood for 9 aminocamptothecin approx. 0.3 camptothecin approx. 6 topotecan approx. 15 CPT 11 approx. 21.0 and SN 38 approx. 30 .

Camptothecin and 9 aminocamptothecin anticancer agents renown for their novel mechanism of action and outstanding murine in vivo activity have to date displayed only modest therapeutic utility against human cancers. The drugs contain the lactone ring moiety which at pH 7.4 hydrolyzes to yield biologically inactive carboxylate forms. Comparison of drug stabilities for 9 aminocamptothecin reveals that ring opening occurred to a much greater extent in human blood than mouse blood see Table 4 . Camptothecin has been shown previously to behave in a similar manner. Burke T. G. Munshi C. B. Mi Z. and Jiang Y. The Important Role of Albumin in Determining the Relative Human Blood Stabilities of the Camptothecin Anticancer Drugs 84 518 519 1995 and Mi Z. and Burke T. G. Marked Interspecies Variations Concerning the Interactions of Camptothecin with Serum Albumins A Frequency Domain Fluorescence Spectroscopic Study 33 12540 12545 1994 . We have used the technique of multifrequency phase modulation spectroscopic analyses of the intrinsic fluorescence emissions of camptothecin lactone and carboxylate to provide a physical explanation for the extensive ring opening observed for camptothecin and 9 aminocamptothecin in the presence of human serum albumin HSA . HSA exhibits a marked 200 fold binding preference for the carboxylate K 1.2 10M relative to the lactone K 5.5 10M . Serum albumins from other species were found to bind camptothecin carboxylate not nearly as tightly as HSA. Due to the unique capacity of human albumin to bind camptothecin carboxylate and 9 aminocamptothecin carboxylate resulting in extensive conversion of the drug to its biologically inactive form it appears that the success of these agents in eradicating cancer in animal models may be inherently more difficult to duplicate in humans.

The data for the novel homosilatecans of the current invention show essentially only minor variations between lactone levels in mouse blood versus human blood. The noted changes in mouse versus animal blood are very small relative to the 100 fold difference in lactone levels observed for 9 aminocamptothecin. In mouse blood experiments for DB 81 and DB 91 the lactone levels actually observed in human blood are modestly underestimated by values of 6 and 20 respectively. However for 9 aminocamptothecin mouse blood overestimates by 100 fold the lactone levels actually observed in human blood. These results indicate that there are fundamental physiological reasons to think that the success of our novel homosilatecans in animal models can be more readily translated into humans relative to agents such as camptothecin and 9 aminocamptothecin.

The cytotoxicities of various camptothecins against MDA MB 435 tumorigenic metastatic human breast cancer cells are summarized in Table 5. The cytotoxicity values are for 72 hr. exposure times. Overall we found DB 38 to be the most potent of the four novel homosilatecans which we studied with an ICvalue of 20 nM while the ICvalues for the other homosilatecans ranged from 20 nM to 115 nM. Our results clearly indicate that through novel homosilatecan development the stability of the agents in human and animal blood can be markedly improved and equalized without compromising the high intrinsic potency and cytotoxicity of this important class of anticancer drugs.

Chemicals. Camptothecin and topotecan were in their 20 S configuration and were of high purity 98 as determined by HPLC assays with fluorescence detection. The preparation of the homosilatecans is described elsewhere in this application. All other agents were reagent grade and were used without further purification. High purity water was provided by a Milli Q UV PLUS purification system Bedford Mass. was utilized in all experiments.

Drug Stock Solution Preparation. Stock solutions of the drugs were prepared in dimethylsulfoxide A.C.S. spectrophotometric grade Aldrich Milwaukee Wis. at a concentration of 2 10M and stored in the dark at 4 C. L Dimyristoylphosphatidylcholine DMPC and L dimyristoylphosphatidylglycerol DMPG were obtained from Avanti Polar Lipids Alabaster Ala. and were used without further purification. All other chemicals were reagent grade and were used without further purification.

Vesicle Preparation. Small unilamellar vesicle SUV suspensions were prepared the day of an experiment by a methodology reported previously Burke and Tritton Biochemistry 24 5972 5980 1985 and Burke T. G. Mishra A. K. Wani M. C. and Wall M. E. Lipid bilayer partitioning and stability of camptothecin drugs 32 5352 5364 1993 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference. Briefly stock lipid suspensions containing known amount of lipid 200 mg mL lipid or less in phosphate buffered saline PBS pH 7.4 were prepared by Vortex mixing for 5 10 min above the Tof the lipid. The lipid dispersions were then sonicated using a bath type sonicator Laboratory Supplies Co. Hicksville N.Y. for 3 4 h until they became optically clear. A decrease in pH from 7.4 to 6.8 was observed for the SUV preparations of DMPG therefore the pH of these SUV suspensions was adjusted to 7.4 using small quantities of 2.5 M NaOH in PBS followed by additional sonication. Each type of vesicle suspension was annealed for 30 min at 37 C. and then used in an experiment.

Fluorescence Instrumentation. Steady state fluorescence measurements were obtained on a SLM Model 9850 spectrofluorometer with a thermostated cuvette compartment. This instrument was interfaced with an IBM PS 2 model 55 SX computer. Excitation and emission spectra were recorded with an excitation resolution of 8 nm and an emission resolution of 4 nm. In all cases spectra were corrected for background fluorescence and scatter from unlabeled lipids or from solvents by subtraction of the spectrum of a blank. Steady state fluorescence intensity measurements were made in the absence of polarizers. Steady state anisotropy a measurements were determined with the instrument in the T format for simultaneous measurement of two polarized intensities. The alignment of polarizers was checked routinely using a dilute suspension of 0.25 m polystyrene microspheres Polysciences Inc Warrington Pa. in water and anisotropy values of 0.99 were obtained. Alternatively polarizer orientation was checked using a dilute solution of glycogen in water. The anisotropy was calculated from a I GI I GI where G I Iand the subscripts refer to vertical and horizontal orientations of the excitation and emission polarizers respectively.

Anisotropy measurements for homosilatecans and camptothecins were conducted using exciting light of 370 to 400 nm and long pass filters on each emission channel to isolate the drug s fluorescence signal from background scatter and or residual fluorescence. All emission filters were obtained from Oriel Corp Stamford Conn. . The combination of exciting light and emission filters allowed adequate separation of fluorescence from background signal. The contribution of background fluorescence together with scattered light was typically less than 1 of the total intensity. Since the lactone rings of camptothecin and related congeners undergo hydrolysis in aqueous medium with half lives of approximately 20 min. all measurements were completed within the shortest possible time ca. 0.5 to 1 min after mixing the drug stock solution with thermally pre equilibrated solutions such that the experiments were free of hydrolysis product. In fluorescence spectroscopic experiments designed to provide information concerning the interactions of homosilatecans and camptothecins with red blood cells drug concentrations of 10 M were used. Experiments with red blood cells were carried out in front face quartz cuvettes to optimize fluorescence signal and minimize scattered light.

Determination of Equilibrium Binding Constants. The method of fluorescence anisotropy titration as reported by Burke T. G. Mishra A. K. Wani M. C. and Wall M. E. Lipid bilayer partitioning and stability of camptothecin drugs 32 5352 5364 1993 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference was employed to determine the concentrations of free and bound species of drug in liposome suspensions containing a total drug concentration of 1 10M and varying lipid concentrations. All experiments were conducted in glass tubes. The overall association constants are defined as K A A L where A represents the concentration of bound drug A represents the concentration of free drug and L represents the total lipid concentration of the sample. Double reciprocal plots of the binding isotherms 1 bound fraction of drug vs. 1 lipid were linear and K values were determined from their slopes by the method of linear least squares analysis. A computer program based on the K A A L relationship was written to predict bound drug levels for specified values of K and total drug.

Kinetics of Lactone Ring Opening of Homosilatecans Silatecans and Camptothecins. The hydrolysis kinetics of camptothecins in the presence of different blood components were determined by a quantitative C18 reversed phase high performance liquid chromatography HPLC assay modified from methodologies described previously in the literature cited above. The preparation of whole blood and fractionated blood samples was carried out as described previously. Crystallized HSA of high purity 97 from Sigma Chemical St. Louis Mo. was used. HSA stock solutions were prepared in PBS buffer with a final pH of 7.40 0.05. HSA concentrations were determined by UV absorbance at 278 nm using an extinction coefficient of 39 800 Mcm Porter 1992 . All other agents were reagent grade and were used without further purification. High purity water provided by a Milli Q UV PLUS purification system Bedford Mass. was utilized in all experiments. HPLC solvents were from Fisher Scientific. Human plasma and red blood cells were obtained from Central Kentucky Blood Center. Whole blood was obtained from a male donor in heparinized tubes stored at 5 10 C. and used as soon as possible typically within 1 week . Blood from mice was collected in heparinized tubes and stored at 5 10 C. until use.

HPLC assays were performed either on a Waters Alliance 2690 HPLC system equipped with a temperature controlled autosampler and Waters 474 scanning fluorescence detector. A second HPLC system was composed of a Waters HPLC system composed of 501 HPLC pumps 717 Plus temperature controlled autosampler and 470 scanning fluorescence detector. The HPLC assay procedures used for the homosilatecans are summarized below. Solvent A consisted of acetonitrile and Solvent B was 2 triethylammonium acetate pH 5.5 with a flow rate of 1 ml min. For DB 38 an isocratic elution was used 33 Solvent A 67 Solvent B 345 nm and 518 nm. For DB 81 an isocratic elution was used 56 Solvent A 44 Solvent B and 375 nm and 444 nm. For DB 90 an isocratic elution was used 41 Solvent A 59 Solvent B 412 nm and 526 nm. For DB 91 an isocratic elution of 42 Solvent A 58 Solvent B and 392 nm and 562 nm.

To determine the stabilities of homosilatecans in PBS an aliquot of each of the homosilatecans in DMSO was added to phosphate buffered saline PBS pH 7.4 in a HPLC autosampler vial maintained at 37 C. in a water bath to result in final drug concentration of 1 M. The drug containing vial was quickly transferred to the autosampler maintained at 37 C. and aliquots analyzed at various time points. All the determinations were done in triplicate. The data was collected and analyzed using Waters Millennium software. The fraction of lactone was calculated using the peak area of lactone and carboxylate peak and using the lactone carboxylate ratio.

To determine drug stability in whole blood whole blood was incubated at 37 C. for 30 min and pH determined. Blood pH was adjusted to 7.4 0.5 using either 0.1 M KOH or 0.1 M HCl. Blood samples were incubated at 37 C. for 30 min and pH remeasured to ensure that it is within the range before an individual assay was started. Aliquots of blood 2 ml each were removed and placed in three disposable glass test tubes and the tubes were incubated at 37 C. An aliquot of drug in DMSO was then added to the blood to result in a final drug concentration of 1 M. Incubation at 37 C. was continued and 150 l aliquots were removed at different time points and added to 600 l of cold methanol 20 C. in an eppendorf tube. The tube was then vortexed for 10 sec and centrifuged in a table top microcentrifuge at 8000 rpm for 45 sec. The Supernatant was removed and placed in an autosampler vial and the vial quickly added to the autosampler maintained at 4 C. The sample was analyzed immediately on the HPLC set up. The data analysis was as described for the drug in PBS only samples.

To study the stabilities of homosilatecans in PBS containing human serum albumin HSA the HSA was dissolved in PBS pH 7.4 at the concentration of 30 mg ml and incubated at 37 C. The pH was measured and adjusted to 7.4 0.5 using 0.1 M KOH or 0.1 M HCl. Incubation continued until pH stabilized within the target range. An aliquot of PBS HSA was removed and placed in an autosampler vial and maintained at 37 C. for 10 min. An aliquot of the drug in DMSO was added to the sample resulting in a final drug concentration of 1 M. The vial was quickly added to the HPLC autosampler maintained at 37 C. and aliquots were injected and analyzed by HPLC at different time points. The data analysis was as described above for the drug in PBS only samples.

To characterize the stabilities of the novel silatecans of interest in human plasma frozen plasma was incubated at 37 C. in order to thaw. Blood gas was bubbled through the plasma to adjust the pH close to 7.5. Aliquots of plasma 5 ml were incubated at 37 C. in disposable glass test tubes and drug DMSO stock solutions added to result in a final drug concentration of 1 M. The samples were then allowed to incubate further at 37 C. Aliquots 150 l were removed at different time points and added to 600 l of cold methanol 20 C. in an eppendorf tube. Tubes were vortexed for 10 sec and centrifuged in a tabletop microcentrifuge at 8000 rpm for 45 sec. The supernatant was removed and placed in an autosampler vial and the vial was quickly added to the autosampler maintained at 4 C. The sample was analyzed by HPLC as soon as possible. The data analysis was as described for drug in PBS only samples as described above. Blood gas was continuously bubbled through the plasma samples to pH at 7.5 1.0.

To study the stabilities of the novel homosilatecans in the presence of physiologically relevant concentrations of red blood cells RBC the following experiments were performed. Packed Red blood cells obtained from the Central Kentucky Red Cross and were counted using a Coulter Cell Counter. The number of cells was adjusted to 5 10Cells L using PBS pH 7.4 and incubated at 37 C. for 30 min. The pH of the samples was measured and adjusted to 7.4 0.5 using either 0.1 M KOH or 0.1 M HCl. RBCs were incubated at 37 C. for 30 min and the pH remeasured to ensure that it was within the same range as before the assays were started. Aliquot of RBCs 2 ml each were removed and placed in three disposable glass test tubes and the tubes were incubated at 37 C. Aliquots of drug in DMSO were added to RBC suspensions in PBS to result in final drug concentration of 1 M. Incubation at 37 C. was continued and 150 l aliquots were removed at different time points and added to 600 l of cold methanol 20 C. present in an eppendorf tube. The tubes were vortexed for 10 sec and centrifuged in a table top microcentrifuge at 8000 rpm for 45 sec. The supernatant was removed and placed in an autosampler vial and the vial was quickly added to the autosampler maintained at 4 C. The sample was analyzed on HPLC as soon as possible. The data analysis was as described for the drug in PBS only samples described above.

Fluorescence Spectral Changes Upon Homosilatecan Interactions with Lipid Bilayer Membranes. Fluorescence emission data were recorded for homosilatecans in solutions of phosphate buffered saline PBS at pH 7.4 and ethanol. Data were also acquired for the new agents in the presence of suspensions of small unilamellar vesicles SUVs composed of either electroneutral dimyristoylphosphatidylcholine DMPC in PBS or negatively charged dimyristoylphosphatidylglycerol DMPG in PBS. Lipid concentrations of 5 mM were used. For DB 38 all spectra were recorded using exciting light of 410 nm at 37 C. The emission maxima for DB 38 in PBS is 531 nm and this value shifts to lower values in the presence of membranes of 515 nm in the presence of DMPC vesicles and of 517 nm in the presence of DMPG vesicles . The spectral shifts of DB 38 which occur in the presence of membranes indicate that the agent is capable of binding both electroneutral and negatively charged membranes. Spectral recordings were initiated and completed shortly after the addition of the lactone form of the agent to solution or suspension thereby assuring that the detected signal originates predominantly from the lactone form of the agent and not the ring opened form .

Fluorescence emission spectra of 1 M 7 t butyldimethylsilylhomocamptothecin DB 81 were also examined. Lipid concentrations of 10 mM were used. All spectra were recorded using exciting light of 380 nm at 37 C. The emission maxima for DB 81 in PBS buffer is 452 nm and this value shifts to lower values in the presence of membranes of 443 nm in the presence of DMPC vesicles and of 442 nm in the presence of DMPG vesicles . The spectral shifts of DB 81 which occur in the presence of membranes indicate that the agent is capable of binding both electroneutral and negatively charged membranes.

The fluorescence emission spectra of 1 M 7 t butyldimethylsilyl 10 aminohomocamptothecin DB 90 was also examined. All spectra were recorded using exciting light of 430 nm at 37 C. The emission maxima for DB 90 in PBS is 535 nm and this value shifts to lower values in the presence of membranes of 513 nm in the presence of DMPC vesicles and of 512 nm in the presence of DMPG vesicles .

The fluorescence emission spectra of 1 M 7 t butyldimethylsilyl 10 hydroxy homocamptothecin DB 91 was also studied. Lipid concentrations of 10 mM were used. All spectra were recorded using exciting light of 394 nm at 37 C. The emission maxima for DB 91 in PBS is 554 nm and this value shifts to lower values in the presence of membranes of 441 nm in the presence of DMPC vesicles and of 434 nm in the presence of DMPG vesicles

The fluorescence emission spectra of 1 M of the carboxylate form of 7 t butyl dimethylsilyl 10 aminohomocamptothecin DB90 carboxylate was also studied. Lipid concentrations of 0.15 mm were used. The concentration of lipid used in these experiments was greater than in the experiments conducted using the corresponding lactone form of DB 90 the higher lipid concentrations were used because of the reduced membrane associations of the opened ring form of the drug relative to the closed ring lactone form of the drug. All spectra were recorded using exciting light of 430 nm at 37 C. The emission maxima for DB 90 carboxylate in PBS is 529 nm and this value shifts to lower values in the presence of membranes of 512 nm in the presence of DMPC vesicles and of 512 nm in the presence of DMPG vesicles

The fluorescence emission spectra of 1 M of the ring opened or carboxylate form of 7 t butyldimethylsilyl 10 hydroxyhomocamptothecin DB 91 carboxylate were also acquired. Lipid concentrations of 0.15 M were used the higher concentration of lipid required in these experiments to promote binding was necessitated by the reduced membrane associations of the opened ring form of the agent relative to the closed ring lactone form of the agent. The emission maxima for DB 91 carboxylate in PBS is 549 nm and this value shifts to lower values of 450 nm in the presence of DMPC vesicles and of 446 nm in the presence of DMPG vesicles .

Normalized fluorescence emission spectra of 1 M of the lactone versus carboxylate forms of 7 t butyldimethylsilyl 10 aminohomocamptothecin DB 90 and DB 90 carboxylate respectively in PBS at 37 C. were studied. Fluorescence emission spectral data indicate that upon ring opening there is a slight shifting of the spectra to the shorter wavelength region or shifting of the spectra more towards the blue region of light . The two spectra were recorded using exciting light of 402 nm.

Normalized fluorescence emission spectra of 1 M of the lactone versus carboxylate forms of 7 t butyldimethylsilyl 10 hydroxylhomocamptothecin DB 91 and DB 91 carboxylate respectively in PBS at 37 C. were acquired. Fluorescence emission spectral data indicate that upon ring opening there is a slight shifting of the spectra to the shorter wavelength region or shifting of the spectra more towards the blue region of light . The two spectra were recorded at 394 nm.

Direct Observation of Fluorescence Spectral Changes Upon Homosilatecan Partitioning in Red Blood Cells. Spectral recordings were initiated and completed shortly after the addition of the lactone form of the agent to solution thereby assuring that the detected signal originates predominantly from the lactone form of the agent and not the ring opened form . The emission maxima for DB 91 in PBS is 554 nm but this value shifts significantly to a of approximately 410 nm in anhydrous ethanol. Because DB 91 contains a 10 hydroxy functionality the possibility exists that fluorescence can occur from two distinct species. In an aprotic solvent or non aqueous microenvironment a protonated with respect to the 10 hydroxy functionality species predominates while in protic solvents such as water a deprotonated excited state complex predominates. The 554 nm peak is correlated with the deprotonated excited state complex while the of approximately 410 nm correlates with the protonated excited state complex. The formation of the deprotonated excited state complex is greatly facilitated by the presence of water even at small amounts of water such as 1 a peak is apparent around 550 nm which correlates with the water facilitated formation of the deprotonated excited state complex. In we study the extent of protonated excited state complex formation and use this parameter as a relative measure of lipophilicity for two 7 modified campotothecins DB 91 and SN 38 with each containing the 10 hydroxy functionality. Spectral recordings were initiated and completed shortly after the addition of the lactone form of the agent to solution thereby assuring that the detected signal originates predominantly from the lactone form of the agent and not the ring opened form . The emission maxima for DB 91 in PBS is 554 nm. In the presence of red blood cells a peak with a significantly lower value is observed indicating that the agent is capable of partitioning into the red blood cell membranes. The membranes of the red blood cells provide a hydrophobic microenvironment from which the protonated excited state complexes can form and fluoresce from. Comparison of the emission spectra of DB 91 in the presence of human erythrocytes with that of clinically relevant 7 ethyl 10 hydroxycamptothecin indicate there is more extensive protonated excited state complex formation in the case of DB 91. These findings corroborate model membrane studies indicating the membrane binding of SN 38 is significantly less than the extensive interactions noted for DB 91 SN 38 displays a Kvalue of 300 Mwhereas DB 91 displays a Kvalue of 8 000 M . The novel homosilatecan DB 91 is a more lipophilic erythrocyte interactive agent relative to the known compound 7 ethyl 10 hydroxycamptothecin SN 38 . The emission maxima for SN 38 in PBS is approximately 550 nm. The SN 38 agent like DB 91 also contains a 10 hydroxy functionality and as a consequence SN 38 also displays fluorescence spectral characteristics which are sensitive to the presence of water. In the presence of red blood cells a peak with a significantly lower value approximately 440 nm is observed for SN 38 indicating that the agent is capable of partitioning into the red blood cell membranes. However the peak at the lower value is reduced for SN 38 relative to the situation observed for DB 91 see . These results indicate there is more extensive protonated excited state complex formation in the case for DB 91 corroborating that the novel homosilatecan DB 91 is a more lipophilic erythrocyte interactive agent relative to the known compound 7 ethyl 10 hydroxycamptothecin SN 38 .

Anticancer Activities of Homosilatecans as Determined By In Vitro Cell Culture Experiments. Cytotoxicity measurements were conducted using MDA MB 435 tumorigenic human breast cancer cells. The cells were exposed to a range of drug concentrations for 72 hr exposure periods and then viability was assessed using a sulphorrhodamine B SRB assay. The SRB measures the total protein levels in the living cells. Proteins from dead cells are lysed and removed in the washing step before TCA fixation. However it is possible that cells in the early stage of death still have their membrane integrity and therefore retain the protein contents inside. As a result the optical density at 490 nm can sometimes be overestimated and the cytotoxicity underestimated. To validate the SRB assay a diverse range of chemotherapeutic agents have been tested across multiple panels of tumor cell lines and close correlations have been found with standard tetrazolium MIT assay and clonogenic assays. The SRB assay is now a well regarded assay and was recently approved by NCI as a standard assay for anticancer drug screening. Using the SRB assay the cytotoxicity values for cells exposed to our novel homosilatecans for 72 hrs. were determined. Cytotoxicities of homosilatecans and camptothecin against MDA MB 435 tumorigenic metastatic human breast cancer cells in the absence and presence of human serum albumin were determined and are summarized in Table 5. Each ICvalue represents the average of three separate trials with each dosage level studied in triplicate.

To a round bottom flask was added N Methylmorpholine N oxide 0.89 g 7.6 mmol followed by HO 10 mL and t BuOH 10 mL . A 2.5 weight percent solution of OsOin t BuOH 0.5 mL was added followed by enol ether 3 0.5 g 1.9 mmol . After 12 hours at 22 C. NaSO 1.0 g was added to the mixture. After 30 minutes the mixture was diluted with HO 100 mL and extracted with CHCl 2 100 mL . The organic layer was dried MgSO and the crude residue was chromatographed hexanes EtOAc 3 1 to yield lactol 4 0.55 g 98 as a white solid IR CHCl cm 3602 3569 3398 3022 2950 1579 1456 1351 H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 0.22 s 9H 0.83 t J 7 Hz 3H 1.71 1.79 m J 7 Hz 2H 2.91 s 1H 3.90 s 3H 4.19 d J 5 Hz 1H 4.53 d J 16 Hz 1H 4.70 d J 16 Hz 1H 5.06 d J 5 Hz 1H 7.25 s 1H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 1.7 7.8 31.5 53.1 58.8 70.9 93.8 115.1 119.7 145.8 158.0 162.8 HRMS EI m z calcd for CHNOSi M 473.0519 found 473.0507 LRMS EI m z 473 M 458 386 360 346 139 73 57.

To a round bottom flask was added lactol 4 0.100 g 0.34 mmol followed by AcOH 9 mL and lead tetraacetate 0.18 g 0.406 mmol . After 3 hours at 50 C. the mixture was poured into ice cold sat. NaHCOand extracted with ether 3 75 mL . The organic layer was dried MgSO and chromatographed hexanes EtOAc 95 5 to yield keto formate ester 5 91 mg 91 as a clear oil IR neat cm 2963 2902 1733 1556 1455 1345 H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 0.30 s 9H 1.21 t J 7 Hz 3H 2.75 2.95 m J 7 Hz 2H 4.02 s 3H 5.28 s 2H 7.07 s 1H 8.05 s 1H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 1.8 7.9 35.9 54.0 57.6 112.9 118.7 148.5 160.8 162.2 167.6 205.6 HRMS EI m z calcd for CHINOSi M 295.1240 found 295.1239 LRMS EI m z 295 M 280 267 250 234 222 206 176 162 103 89 79 73 57.

To a flame dried flask was added keto formate ester 5 0.5 g 1.69 mmol followed by dioxane 20 mL . Bromo tert butylacetate 0.9 mL 6.08 mmol was added followed by activated Zn 0.59 g 9.1 mmol . The Zn was activated by the Cava method as set forth in the 47 p. 5030 1982 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference. Next I 0.16 g 0.63 mmol was added and the mixture was sonicated for 3.2 hours. After sonication the mixture was diluted with HO 100 mL and ether 100 mL . The resulting emulsion was filtered through a pad of celite the phases were separated and the aqueous layer was extracted with ether 2 100 mL . The combined ether extracts were dried MgSO and chromatographed hexanes EtOAc 85 15 to yield beta hydroxy ester 6 0.50 g 78 as a clear oil IR neat cm 3469 2980 1705 1575 1545 1447 1342 1248 1153 H NMR 300 MHz CD 0.38 s 9H 0.79 t J 7 Hz 3H 1.15 s 9H 1.75 1.92 m J 7 Hz 2H 2.52 d J 16 Hz 1H 2.79 d J 16 Hz 1H 3.03 t J 7 Hz 2H 3.74 s 3H 5.18 d J 7 Hz 2H 5.19 s 1H 7.18 s 1H C NMR 75 MHz CD 1.9 8.1 27.6 35.5 45.6 53.0 57.0 77.3 81.5 120.9 121.8 152.3 162.6 163.3 172.3 HRMS EI m z calcd for CHINOSi M HO 365.2022 found 365.2028 LRMS EI m z 383 M 365 336 309 280 262 250 208 89 73 57.

To a 100 mL flask was added the beta hydroxy ester 6 0.75 g 1.9 mmol followed by trifluoroacetic acid 150 mL . After 24 hours the mixture was poured into sat. NaHCO pH 8 and extracted with ether 3 100 mL . The organic phase was dried MgSO and chromatographed hexanes EtOAc 2 1 to give beta hydroxy lactone 7 0.48 g 79 as a white solid IR CHCl cm 3020 2978 2873 1742 1561 1448 1384 1348 1110 909 842 H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 0.22 s 9H 0.83 t J 7 Hz 3H 1.81 1.88 m J 7 Hz 2H 1.37 br s 1H 3.00 d J 14 Hz 1H 3.32 d J 14 Hz 1H 3.91 s 3H 5.18 d J 15 Hz 1H 5.42 d J 15 Hz 1H 7.26 s 1H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 1.9 8.4 33.9 42.9 53.8 62.2 73.8 114.7 121.2 151.6 159.8 165.9 172.3 HRMS EI m z calcd for CHNOSi M 309.1396 found 309.1399 LRMS EI m z 309 M 294 266 252 238 89.

To a flame dried flask at 0 C. was added beta hydroxy lactone 7 0.94 g 3.0 mmol followed by dry CHCl 25 mL . ICl 3.2 g 19.7 mmol was added to a flame dried flask at 78 C. The flask was taken out of the bath warmed slightly excess moisture was wiped from the outside and it was quickly weighed under nitrogen. After weighing it was returned to the 78 C. bath and diluted with ice cold CCl 16 mL to give a 1.2 M solution of IC. The resulting ICl solution was transferred to an ice bath and allowed to equilibrate to 0 C. A portion of the ICl solution 10.1 mL was transferred to the mixture dropwise in the dark. After 16 hours in the dark the mixture was poured into a 1 1 solution 100 mL of 5 NaSOand sat. Brine and extracted with EtOAc 3 100 mL . The organic layer was dried MgSO and chromatographed hexanes EtOAc 3 1 to give beta hydroxy lactone 7 0.43 g 46 and iodolactone 8 0.41 g 37 IR CHCl cm 2974 2951 1747 1573 1554 1359 1278 1212 1054 870 H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 0.84 t J 7 Hz 3H 1.78 1.85 m J 7 Hz 2H 2.98 br d J 14 Hz 2H 3.30 d J 14 Hz 1H 3.90 s 3H 5.10 d J 15 Hz 1H 5.35 d J 15 Hz 1H 7.51 s 1H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 8.4 37.4 42.7 55.0 61.8 73.4 114.0 114.9 127.3 155.3 159.8 171.9 HRMS EI m z calcd for CHINO M 362.9967 found 362.9955 LRMS EI m z 363 M 334 326 317 302 292 262 234 162 137 120 57.

To a flame dried flask was added iodolactone 8 0.33 g 0.90 mmol followed by dry acetonitrile 12 mL . Sodium iodide 0.22 g 1.44 mmol was added followed by chlorotrimethylsilane 0.18 mL 1.44 mmol . The resulting mixture was stirred at 22 C. for 15 minutes at which point HO 7.6 L 0.42 mmol was added and the mixture was heated at 60 C. After 5 hours at 60 C. the mixture was poured into a 1 1 solution of 5 NaSO Brine 75 mL and then quickly extracted with EtOAc 6 75 mL . The organic layer was dried MgSO and chromatographed CHCl MeOH 95 5 to yield iodopyridone 9 as a white solid 0.19 g 61 H NMR 300 MHz CDCl CDOD 0.62 t J 7 Hz 3H 1.45 1.54 m J 7 Hz 2H 2.80 d J 14 Hz 1H 2.97 d J 14 Hz 1H 4.93 d J 15 Hz 1H 5.06 d J 15 Hz 1H 6.66 s 1H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 7.5 35.6 41.9 61.6 72.5 94.4 118.3 121.1 156.5 162.6 172.7 HRMS EI m z calcd for CHINO M 348.9811 found 348.9815 LRMS EI m z 349 M 331 320 303 289 278 264 250 162 150 122 94 57.

To a flame dried flask was added iodopyridone 9 0.16 g 0.46 mmol followed by dry DME 3.8 mL and DMF 0.95 mL This solution was lowered to 0 C. and NaH 60 dispersion in oil 19.3 mg 0.483 mmol was added portionwise. After 15 minutes 2 eq of vacuum flame dried LiBr 81 mg 0.92 mmol was added and the mixture was raised to 22 C. After 25 minutes at 22 C. the trimethylsilylpropargyl bromide 0.130 mL 0.92 mmol was added and the mixture was heated at 65 C. After 16 hours the mixture was poured into brine 50 mL and extracted with EtOAc 8 30 mL . The EtOAc layer was dried MgSO and chromatographed CHCl EtOAc 80 20 to give the desired N alkylated pyridone 10a 134 mg 63 as a white foam H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 0.005 s 9H 0.80 t J 7 Hz 3H 1.60 1.74 m J 7 Hz 2H 2.94 d J 14 Hz 1H 3.11 d J 14 Hz 1H 3.60 br s 1H 4.82 d J 17 Hz 1H 5.01 d J 17 Hz 1H 5.09 d J 15 Hz 1H 5.26 d J 15 Hz 1H 7.01 s 1H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl CDOD 0.44 7.9 35.7 42.2 45.2 62.3 72.6 90.7 98.1 99.2 119.9 122.3 155.1 160.6 172.6 HRMS EI m z calcd for CHINOSi M 459.0363 found 459.0366 LRMS EI m z 459 M 444 388 306 111 96 83 73 57.

Following the procedure outlined above iodopyridone 7 0.16 g 0.46 mmol was N alkylated with the TBDMS propargyl bromide 0.21 g 0.92 mmol . Flash chromatography CHCl EtOAc 9 1 gave iodopyridone 8b 134 mg 58 as a white foam H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 0.097 s 6H 0.92 br s 12H 1.82 1.89 br m 2H 3.01 d J 14 Hz 1H 3.33 d J 14 Hz 1H 3.48 br s 1H 5.07 s 2H 5.12 d J 15 Hz 1H 5.47 d J 15 Hz 1H 7.10 s 1H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 4.7 8.3 16.6 26.3 36.0 42.6 45.3 62.8 73.5 89.4 98.6 99.5 119.5 122.9 154.1 160.4 172.0 HRMS EI m z calcd for CHINOSi M 501.0832 found 501.0843 LRMS EI m z 501 M 444 402 335 318 169 121 96 57.

To an oven dried pressure tube under Ar was added the iodopyridone 10a 15 mg 0.033 mmol followed by benzene 0.25 mL and t BuOH 0.5 mL . Next phenylisonitrile 13.6 mg 0.13 mmol and hexamethylditin 16.0 mg 0.049 mmol were added and the tube was flushed with Ar sealed and placed in front of a 275W GE sunlamp. After 12 hours of irradiation the mixture was concentrated and chromatographed CHCl acetone 5 1 to yield homocamptothecin 1 h 5.2 mg 36 as a tan solid H NMR 300 MHz CDCl CDOD 0.64 s 9H 0.96 t J 7 Hz 3H 1.96 2.05 m J 7 Hz 2H 3.19 d J 14 Hz 2H 3.46 d J 14 Hz 1H 5.34 s 2H 5.44 d J 15 Hz 1H 5.63 d J 15 Hz 1H 7.65 7.71 m 2H 7.78 7.84 m 1H 8.18 d J 8 Hz 1H 8.27 d J 8 Hz 1H HRMS EI m z calcd for CHNOSi M 434.1662 found 434.1679 LRMS EI m z 434 M 419 388 374 363 347 335 320 303 289 275 261 247 231 219 174 149 73.

Following the procedure described above iodopyridone 10a 30 mg 0.065 mmol was reacted with para bocaminophenylisonitrile 57 mg 0.26 mmol and hexamethylditin 32.2 mg 0.1 mmol in benzene 0.5 mL and t BuOH 1 mL . Chromatography CHCl Acetone 7 1 gave compound 1c 18.8 mg 53 as a brown solid IR CHCl cm 3022 3007 1736 1655 1594 1528 1155 1062 H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 0.70 s 9H 0.96 t J 7 Hz 3H 1.61 s 9H 1.85 2.10 m J 7 Hz 2H 3.31 d J 13 Hz 1H 3.41 d J 13 Hz 1H 5.11 d J 19 Hz 1H 5.34 5.41 m 2H 5.61 d J 15 Hz 1H 6.96 s 1H 7.19 7.40 m 1H 7.62 s 1H 8.37 s 1H C NMR 125 MHz CDCl 1.43 8.3 28.4 35.8 42.6 52.4 62.3 73.9 81.2 100.3 115.1 122.2 123.0 130.7 132.6 134.8 137.1 143.4 143.6 145.1 148.2 152.6 156.5 159.8 171.8 HRMS EI m z calcd for CHNOSi M 549.2295 found 549.2274 LRMS EI m z 549 M 493 475 449 433 415 404 389 378 350 304 260 195 182 73.

Following the procedure described above iodopyridone 10a 30 mg 0.065 mmol was reacted with para acetoxyphenylisonitrile 42 mg 0.26 mmol and hexamethylditin 32.2 mg 0.1 mmol in benzene 0.5 mL and t BuOH 1 mL . Chromatography CHCl Acetone 5 1 gave the product 6.6 mg 21 as a tan solid IR CHCl cm 3025 2992 2953 1753 1657 1600 1504 1193 H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 0.67 s 9H 0.98 t J 7 Hz 3H 1.99 2.07 m 2H 2.42 s 3H 3.26 d J 14 Hz 1H 3.45 d J 14 Hz 1H 3.66 br s 1H 5.18 d J 19 Hz 1H 5.35 d J 15 Hz 1H 5.39 d J 19 Hz 1H 5.66 d J 15 Hz 1H 7.38 dd J 9 Hz J 2 Hz 1H 7.40 s 1H 7.88 d J 9 Hz 1H 7.92 d J 2 Hz 1H C NMR 125 MHz CDCl 1.6 8.3 21.5 35.9 42.6 52.2 62.2 74.0 100.5 118.9 122.9 124.7 131.3 132.2 135.0 144.1 144.8 145.0 148.9 150.0 156.0 159.7 169.1 171.5 HRMS EI m z calcd for CHNOSi M 492.1717 found 492.1707 LRMS EI m z 492 M 477 459 450 432 421 403 393 379 365 351 336 147.

Following the procedure described above iodopyridone 10b 25 mg 0.05 mmol was reacted with phenylisonitrile 15.5 mg 0.15 mmol and hexamethylditin 25 mg 0.075 mmol in benzene 0.75 mL . Chromatography CHCl Acetone 7 1 gave compound 1g 6.4 mg 27 as a tan solid IR CHCl cm 3027 2958 2932 2859 1745 1655 1600 1269 1065 H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 0.69 s 3H 0.70 s 3H 0.92 t J 7 Hz 3H 1.00 s 9H 1.92 2.02 m J 7 Hz 2H 3.23 d J 13 Hz 1H 3.39 d J 13 Hz 1H 3.90 br s 1H 5.11 d J 19 Hz 1H 5.31 d J 15 Hz 1H 5.40 d J 19 Hz 1H 5.60 d J 15 Hz 1H 7.35 s 1H 7.39 7.49 m 2H 7.70 d J 8 Hz 1H 8.07 d J 8 Hz 1H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 0.5 0.3 8.3 19.4 27.3 35.9 42.7 52.9 62.3 74.0 100.3 122.8 126.9 129.4 130.3 132.7 136.0 143.3 145.3 147.6 150.1 156.1 159.9 171.5 HRMS EI m z calcd for CHNOSi M 476.2131 found 476.2118 LRMS EI m z 476 M 458 430 419 405 389 377 361 345 319 304 275 149 117 91 73 56.

Following the procedure described above iodopyridone 10b 45 mg 0.089 mmol was reacted with para bocaminophenylisonitrile 58 mg 0.27 mmol and hexamethylditin 45 mg 0.13 mmol in benzene 1.3 mL . Chromatography CHCl Acetone 10 1 gave compound 1a 7.8 mg 15 as a tan solid IR CHCl cm 3435 3022 2931 2859 1738 1654 1563 1528 1156 H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 0.76 s 3H 0.77 s 3H 0.96 t J 7 Hz 3H 1.10 s 9H 1.62 s 9H 1.91 2.07 m J 7 Hz 2H 3.34 d J 14 Hz 1H 3.41 d J 14 Hz 1H 4.42 br s 1H 5.09 d J 19 Hz 1H 5.38 d J 15 Hz 1H 5.47 d J 19 Hz 1H 5.62 d J 15 Hz 1H 6.99 br s 1H 7.21 7.25 m 2H 7.45 d J 9 Hz 1H 8.37 d J 2 Hz 1H C NMR 125 MHz CDCl 0.9 0.5 8.3 19.6 27.4 28.4 35.5 42.7 53.0 62.2 73.8 81.1 100.0 116.2 122.2 123.0 130.3 133.5 136.3 136.9 144.4 145.2 148.2 152.6 156.4 160.0 171.5 HRMS EI m z calcd for CHNOSi M 591.2765 found 591.2751 LRMS EI m z 534 M 57 516 488 477 459 435 417 393 375 111 97 83 69 57.

Following the procedure described above iodopyridone 10b 45 mg 0.089 mmol was reacted with para acetoxyphenylisonitrile 43 mg 0.27 mmol and hexamethylditin 45 mg 0.13 mmol in benzene 1.3 mL Chromatography CHCl Acetone 10 1 gave compound 1e 9.6 mg 20 as a tan solid H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 0.73 s 3H 0.74 s 3H 0.97 t J 7 Hz 3H 1.07 s 9H 1.94 2.08 m J 7 Hz 2H 2.42 s 3H 3.29 d J 14 Hz 1H 3.44 d J 14 Hz 1H 4.05 br s 1H 5.16 d J 19 Hz 1H 5.37 d J 15 Hz 1H 5.48 d J 19 Hz 1H 5.65 d J 15 Hz 1H 7.31 dd J 9 Hz J 2 Hz 1H 7.36 s 1H 7.70 d J 9 Hz 1H 7.97 d J 2 Hz 1H C NMR 125 MHz CDCl 0.7 0.5 8.3 19.3 21.5 27.2 35.8 42.7 52.9 62.2 73.9 100.4 120.1 122.8 124.7 131.1 133.0 136.5 143.0 145.0 145.4 148.9 149.9 156.2 159.9 169.0 171.5 HRMS EI m z calcd for CHNOSi M 534.2186 found 534.2188 LRMS EI m z 534 M 516 488 477 459 435 417 393 375 335 320 291 275 234 164 137 125 111 97 83 69 57.

Compound 1e 11.9 mg 0.022 mmol was dissolved in HO 0.3 mL and MeOH 0.3 mL . Next KCO 7.5 mg 0.054 mmol was added and the mixture was stirred at 22 C. After 4 h the solvent was evaporated and the residue was dissolved in CHCl 2 mL and TFA 2 mL . After stirring at 22 C. for 16 h sat. NaHCOwas carefully added until pH 5 was attained. At this point the solution was extracted with EtOAc 3 10 mL and the organic layer was dried NaSO and concentrated. The residue was chromatographed twice 1 CHCl MeOH AcOH 94 5 1 2 CHCl Acetone 5 1 to give compound 1f 8.6 mg 79 as a yellow solid H NMR 300 MHz CDCl CDOD 0.65 s 6H 0.90 0.99 m 12H 1.89 2.05 m 2H 3.14 d J 14 Hz 1H 3.34 d J 14 Hz 1H 5.23 s 2H 5.35 d J 15 Hz 1H 5.57 d J 15 Hz 1H 7.42 dd J 9 Hz J 2 Hz 1H 7.58 d J 2 Hz 1H 7.70 s 1H 8.16 d J 9 Hz 1H C NMR 125 MHz CDCl CDOD 1.1 8.1 19.2 26.9 36.1 42.1 52.8 62.1 73.5 101.8 111.5 122.7 123.6 127.5 129.0 135.0 136.6 139.8 143.1 145.5 156.7 156.9 159.6 172.8 HRMS EI m z calcd for CHNOSi M 492.2080 found 492.2087 LRMS EI m z 492 M 474 446 435 421 393 375 346 335 315 291 273 259 231 183 155.

Trifluoroacetic acid 0.1 mL was added to a solution containing CHCl 0.5 mL and compound 1a 8.1 mg 0.014 mmol and the contents were stirred at 22 C. After 5 h the mixture was poured into sat. NaHCO 2 mL and extracted with EtOAc 6 2 mL . The EtOAc was dried NaSO concentrated and chromatographed CHCl MeOH 96 4 to give 1b 6 mg 89 as a yellow solid H NMR 300 MHz CDCl CDOD 0.28 s 6H 0.78 0.88 m 12H 1.78 1.90 m 2H 3.04 d J 14 Hz 1H 3.24 d J 14 Hz 1H 5.02 5.11 m 2H 5.24 d J 15 Hz 1H 5.46 d J 15 Hz 1H 7.20 s 1H 7.26 dd J 9 Hz J 2 Hz 1H C NMR 125 MHz CDCl CDOD 1.0 8.0 19.1 26.9 36.1 42.1 52.7 62.1 73.4 100.7 122.0 123.2 130.5 134.3 136.8 141.8 144.2 147.1 156.7 159.7 172.8 HRMS EI m z calcd for CHNOSi M 491.2240 found 491.2242 LRMS EI m z 491 M 434 392 376 319 279 262 223 178 167 149 136 121 107 91 77 57.

Trifluoroacetic acid 0.1 mL was added to a solution containing CHCl 0.5 mL and compound 1c 6.6 mg 0.012 mmol and the contents were stirred at 22 C. After 5 h the mixture was poured into sat. NaHCO 2 mL and extracted with EtOAc 6 2 mL . The EtOAc was dried NaSO concentrated and chromatographed CHCl MeOH 95 5 to give 1d 2.5 mg 45 as an orange red solid H NMR 300 MHz CDCl CDOD 0.60 s 9H 0.94 t J 7 Hz 3H 1.92 2.05 m 2H 3.16 d J 14 Hz 1H 3.46 d J 14 Hz 1H 5.24 s 2H 5.40 d J 15 Hz 1H 5.61 d J 15 Hz 1H 7.25 7.32 m 2H 7.52 s 1H 7.89 d J 9 Hz 1H C NMR 125 MHz CDCl CDOD 0.12 7.1 35.7 41.5 51.6 61.3 72.8 99.3 107.0 120.4 121.7 129.9 133.6 134.4 139.5 141.0 144.7 145.2 146.4 156.2 159.3 172.6 HRMS EI m z calcd for CHNOSi M 449.1771 found 449.1791 LRMS EI m z 449 M 434 402 389 374 350 335 304 178 73 .

Following the procedure outlined above iodopyridone 9 0.106 g 0.92 mmol was N alkylated with the 2 trimethylsilylethyl propargyl bromide 0.43 g 1.84 mmol . Flash chromatography CHCl EtOAc 10 1 gave iodopyridone 10c 68 mg 46 as a light yellow foam H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 0.069 s 9H 0.72 t J 8 Hz 2H 0.87 t J 7 Hz 3H 1.70 1.88 m 2H 2.10 2.20 m 2H 2.96 d J 14 Hz 1H 3.15 br s 1H 3.27 d J 14 Hz 1H 4.90 5.00 m 2H 5.07 d J 15 Hz 1H 5.41 d J 15 Hz 1H 7.02 s 1H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 1.6 8.2 13.5 15.7 35.9 42.5 45.3 62.7 72.5 73.4 88.0 99.7 119.2 122.8 153.9 160.4 171.8 HRMS EI m z calcd for CHINOSi M 487.0676 found 487.0676 LRMS EI m z 487 M 472 400 374 346 96 73.

To an oven dried pressure tube under Ar was added the iodopyridone 10c 16 mg 0.033 mmol followed by Benzene 0.5 mL . Next phenylisonitrile 10.2 mg 0.1 mmol and hexamethylditin 16.7 mg 0.051 mmol were added and the tube was flushed with Ar sealed and placed in front of a 275W GE sunlamp. After 12 hours of irradiation the mixture was concentrated and chromatographed CHCl acetone 4 1 to yield the desired homocamptothecin 1i 3.6 mg 24 as a tan solid H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 0.184 s 9H 0.85 1.05 m 5H 1.98 2.10 m 2H 3.00 3.12 m 2H 3.18 d J 14 Hz 2H 3.48 d J 13 Hz 1H 5.14 d J 19 Hz 1H 5.24 d J 19 Hz 1H 5.34 d J 15 Hz 1H 5.71 d J 15 Hz 1H 7.53 s 1H 7.57 7.63 m 1H 7.70 7.77 m 1H 7.94 d J 8 Hz 1H 8.10 d J 8 Hz 1H HRMS EI m z calcd for CHNOSi M 462.1975 found 462.1976 LRMS EI m z 462 M 447 415 402 391 377 363 348 317 289 243 231 73 59.

Following the procedure described above iodopyridone 10c 16 mg 0.033 mmol was reacted with para Bocaminophenylisonitrile 21.6 mg 0.1 mmol and hexamethylditin 16.7 mg 0.051 mmol in benzene 0.5 mL . Chromatography CHCl Acetone 7 1 gave compound 1j 10.7 mg 56 as a brown solid H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 0.20 s 9H 0.83 0.93 m 2H 0.99 t J 7 Hz 3H 1.60 s 9H 1.93 2.10 m 2H 2.90 3.05 m 2H 3.24 d J 14 Hz 1H 3.44 d J 14 Hz 1H 3.74 br s 1H 5.03 d J 19 Hz 1H 5.20 d J 19 Hz 1H 5.33 d J 15 Hz 1H 5.67 d J 15 Hz 1H 6.85 s 1H 7.35 7.44 m 2H 7.85 d J 9 Hz 1H 8.11 br s 1H HRMS EI m z calcd for CHNOSi M 577.2608 found 577.2611 LRMS EI m z 577 M 521 477 462 434 417 378 304 260 178 108 73.

Following the procedure described above iodopyridone 10c 16 mg 0.033 mmol was reacted with para acetoxyphenylisonitrile 16 mg 0.1 mmol and hexamethylditin 16.7 mg 0.051 mmol in benzene 0.5 mL . Chromatography CHCl Acetone 5 1 gave compound 1k 7.1 mg 41 as a tan solid H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 0.19 s 9H 0.82 0.89 m 2H 0.99 t J 7 Hz 3H 1.95 2.06 m 2H 2.42 s 3H 2.94 2.98 m 2H 3.23 d J 14 Hz 1H 3.46 d J 14 Hz 1H 3.59 br s 1H 5.08 d J 19 Hz 1H 5.24 d J 19 Hz 1H 5.35 d J 15 Hz 1H 5.68 d J 15 Hz 1H 7.41 7.49 m 2H 7.60 d J 2 Hz 1H 7.96 d J 9 Hz 1H HRMS EI m z calcd for CHNOSi M 520.2030 found 520.2017 LRMS EI m z 520 M 491 478 463 449 431 421 406 393 379 333 305 261 178 109 73.

Following the procedure outlined above compound 1k 7.1 mg 0.014 mmol was reacted with KCO 4 mg 0.028 mmol in a MeOH HO solution. The residue was chromatographed CHCl Acetone 7 1 to give compound 1l 2.6 mg 39 as a yellow solid H NMR 300 MHz CDCl CDOD 0.042 s 9H 0.68 0.92 m 5H 1.80 1.95 m 2H 2.83 2.95 m 2H 3.07 d J 14 Hz 1H 3.28 d J 14 Hz 1H 5.05 s 2H 5.29 d J 15 Hz 1H 5.51 d J 15 Hz 1H 7.22 d J 2 Hz 1H 7.26 7.34 m 1H 7.40 s 1H 7.89 d J 9 Hz 1H HRMS EI m z calcd for CHNOSi M 478.1924 found 478.1915 LRMS EI m z 478 M 463 431 418 393 379 364 305 261 153 117 105 91 73 59.

Trifluoroacetic acid 0.1 mL was added to a solution containing CHCl 0.5 mL and compound II 10.7 mg 0.018 mmol and the contents were stirred at 22 C. After 5 h the mixture was poured into sat. NaHCO 2 mL and extracted with EtOAc 6 2 mL . The EtOAc was dried NaSO concentrated and chromatographed CHCl MeOH 96 4 to give 1m 6.7 mg 78 as a yellow solid H NMR 300 MHz CDCl CDOD 0.059 s 9H 0.70 0.92 m 5H 1.82 1.98 m 2H 2.80 2.92 m 2H 3.08 d J 14 Hz 1H 3.29 d J 14 Hz 1H 5.00 s 2H 5.29 d J 15 Hz 1H 5.52 d J 15 Hz 1H 6.95 d J 2 Hz 1H 7.18 dd J 9 Hz J 2 Hz 1H 7.38 s 1H 7.83 d J 9 Hz 1H .

Although the present invention has been described in detail in connection with the above examples it is to be understood that such detail is solely for that purpose and that variations can be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit of the invention except as it may be limited by the following claims.

