---

title: Information display system based on user profile data with assisted and explicit profile modification
abstract: A data processing system for delivering an open profile personalization system based profile data structures that contain one or more interest nodes. The interest nodes include respective sets of targets and qualifiers, where the targets and qualifiers comprise typed-attributes to be used in the filtering of information files for delivery as a result set for the interest nodes. Targets and qualifiers are applied the typed-attributes of available information files to produce the filtered set. Web pages showing the personalized results include tools based on sophisticated content analysis to assist the user in creation and editing of the open profile. A method for presenting and updating the web pages is responsive to the use of these tools.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09081853&OS=09081853&RS=09081853
owner: GRAHAM HOLDINGS COMPANY
number: 09081853
owner_city: Arlington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090402
---
Benefit is hereby claimed of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 042 168 entitled INFORMATION DISPLAY SYSTEM BASED ON USER PROFILE DATA WITH ASSISTED AND EXPLICIT PROFILE MODIFICATION filed on 3 Apr. 2008.

The present invention relates to retrieving analyzing and delivering information using user profiles that are explicitly edited by the user and tools for facilitating the creation and editing of such profiles by users in an interactive computer implemented process.

The Internet is becoming a leading source for news. However the amount of news available through the Internet is overwhelming. Thus Internet portals and other websites offer so called personalization to varying degrees. A great deal of active research is being conducted concerning how to improve personalized access to news and other resources. See Pretschner et al. Ontology Based Personalized Search Proc. 11th IEEE Intl. Conf. on Tools with Artificial Intelligence pp. 391 398 Chicago November 1999.

Personalization technologies often require creation of a user profile which is used in the process of filtering information and presenting the information to the user. One common perception in this field is that profile creation should not require significant effort by the user at the risk of alienation and loss of the customer. However so called open profiles which include editable user models have been proposed allowing a user to examine and edit a user profile. See Ahn et al. Open User Profiles for Adaptive News Systems Help or Harm International World Wide Web Conference Committee WWW2007 May 8 12 2007. In Ahn et al. an editable profile is described based on the display of keywords used in the filtering process. The user is able to add and delete words from the list. Also the process identifies top keywords in articles returned to the user which enables the user to discover the terms used in the articles and utilize the information in the process of editing the profile. Ahn et al. found however that providing a user the ability to add and remove keywords typically harms system and user performance in information retrieval systems. Ahn et al. suggests that user editable profiles might work in systems that have good control over the delivery of cumulative or duplicative articles which they characterize as good novelty control in the filtering of information to deliver to the users. They found evidence that duplicative articles led users to try to amend their profiles to eliminate the duplicates with poor results. However as Ahn et al. have demonstrated practical and useful systems based on open user profiles have not been deployed.

It is desirable therefore to provide personalization technologies based on open profiles which can be modified by users in a way that actually improves the results of the information filtering and presentation systems.

Personalization technology for delivery of news and other information is described that is based on an open user profile and supported by sophisticated content analysis and tools that enable a user to quickly and easily take advantage of the content analysis in the creation and refinement of his or her profile.

A data processing system for delivering the service includes a database storing a plurality of user records. The user records include respective profile data structures that contain one or more interest nodes. The interest nodes in turn include respective sets of targets where the targets comprise typed attributes to be used in the filtering of information files for delivery of result sets for the interest nodes. The data processing system also includes logic that is executable to process the information files and associated metadata in response to a selected interest node to produce a filtered set of information files. The processing applies the targets of the interest node over the typed attributes of available information files to produce the filtered set. The data processing system includes logic executable to compose and send executable documents to a user terminal where the executable documents are rendered to produce a graphical user interface. The executable documents comprise data specifying a representation of the filtered set of information files a representation of the targets which define the interest node and a representation of selectable markup identifying typed attributes associated with the filtered set of information files. Upon rendering of the graphical user interface at the user terminal tools are presented that highlight the typed attributes and enable the user to select the highlighted typed attributes and cause messages to be sent to the data processing system for use in refinement of the interest node. The data processing system includes logic to receive these messages indicating the selection of particular markup in the graphical interface at the user terminal which is executable to modify the selected interest node in response to these messages by for example adding a target corresponding to the typed attributes identified by the particular markup.

Typed attributes usable as targets in the user profile include entity type attributes that identify entities named in the associated information files topic type attributes that identify topics from a taxonomy addressed in the associated information files phrase type attributes identifying keywords or phrases used in the associated information files concept type attributes identifying concepts that are addressed in the associated information files and so on. The entity type attributes topic type attributes and concept type attributes are extracted from information files using content analysis programs that require analysis requiring linguistic and statistical techniques beyond simply recognizing and indexing words used in the information files. By delivering markup identifying typed attributes to the user in association with tools used for editing an open profile the user s participation in the creation and refinement of interest nodes in the profile is facilitated and superior personalization results are achieved.

In addition to targets as described above user profiles include interest nodes in which typed attributes are used as qualifiers where a qualifier is an argument used by an algorithm or algorithms for ranking and filtering information files in result sets or an argument used for composition and delivery of result sets. The executable documents that are used for rendering the graphical user interface include data structures specifying user selectable markup that enable user to produce messages to the data processing system to add or modify qualifiers in the profile data structure. In one embodiment user selectable markup up is provided that allows the user to generate an indication of interest in specific information files represent on the graphical interface. In this case the menu is presented in response to the indication of a selected information file with recommended typed attributes. The menu enables a user to produce messages to the data processing system to modify the selected interest node based on typed attributes associated with the selected information file such as by adding or removing the highlighted typed attribute as a qualifier in the selected interest node.

The data processing system also includes logic for the initiation of interest nodes within a profile data structure. Profile data structures can be characterized as data structures arranged to contain sets of targets and qualifiers. An executable document is presented that includes data structures that specify user selectable markup for generating an indication that user intends to create an interest node. In the creation of interest nodes the markup identifying typed attributes of information files and other tools are leveraged to assist the user to create relevant and useful targets and qualifiers.

A method for presenting personalized content is provided which includes storing information files and associated metadata in computer readable storage and storing a profile data structure in a database including a plurality of interest nodes that include respective sets of targets. The method includes filtering the information files and metadata using targets in a selected interest node to produce a filtered set of information files by executing a procedure on the data processing system in communication with the storage and the database. The method includes composing a first executable document using the data processing system. The first executable document is used by a user terminal for rendition of a graphical user interface that includes a representation of the filtered set of information files user selectable markup identifying typed attributes represented in the filtered set of information files and a representation of the selected interest node from the profile data structure of the user. The data processing system sends the first executable document on a data network to a user terminal which renders a graphical user interface enabling the user to the return messages to the data processing system. The data processing system modifies the selected interest node and the profile data structure in response to an indication of selected markup by the user. The modification can include adding the typed attributes identified by the selected markup as a target or qualifier in interest node. Next the data processing system composes a second executable document use for rendition of a graphical user interface at the user terminal based on a modified interest node. The second executable document is returned to the user across the data network and rendered to produce an updated graphical user interface with modified results.

Embodiments of the first and second executable documents include a first pane displaying a representation of the profile data structure a second pane displaying a representation of the filtered set of information files and a third pane including a list of markup identifying typed attributes represented in the filtered set of information files. Also embodiments of the first and second executable documents include a status bar indicating the selected interest node.

In composing a second executable document a new filtered set of information files is produced in response to the particular typed attribute is provided as part of the second executable document along with a second annotation marking the particular typed attribute is provided that is selectable to cause execution of the program to update the selected interest node with a target corresponding to that particular typed attribute. In this manner a two phase process is required for updating the interest node that involves first reviewing results provided by the proposed update and second deciding whether to permanently add the proposed update to the interest node.

Other aspects of the technology described herein can be seen on review of the figures the detailed description and the claims which follow.

In the configuration illustrated a content database A is coupled with and managed by a content pipeline executed by data processors C. The content database includes metadata associated with the information files including typed attributes usable by the logic executed by data processors A B C in the filtering of information files. Information files in a representative system can include text based files image based files video files and other content which can satisfy parameters of a user s profile as it is reflected in a profile data structure and can be obtained via a content pipeline.

A user database B is coupled with and managed by a personalization engine executed by data processors B. The user database B includes user records that store parameters of user accounts including user profile data structures utilized for personalization of the information files fed to the users. The profile data structures include one or more interest nodes associated with the user account. The interest nodes comprise targets which are typed attributes usable by the logic executed by data processors A B C in the filtering of information files. The interest nodes also comprise qualifiers which are typed attributes usable by the logic executed by data processors A B C for ranking and further filtering the information files.

In the environment shown sources of information files provide such files to the content pipeline at data processors C via the communications infrastructure . Users at terminals utilized browsers or other application programs executed on their terminals to interact with a web application executed by data processors A. Thus the terminals display graphical user interfaces by rendering images with mark up using executable electronic documents such as web pages implemented using mark up languages and scripts composed by the data processors A B C and accept and relay input signals from the terminals to the server data processors A B C using protocols such as the hypertext transfer protocol HTTP or other communication protocols suitable for the processes described herein.

A basic deployment architecture is illustrated in . This deployment architecture is representative of high traffic server farm implementations. The technology can be deployed in a single computer or in many computers configured as suits a particular embodiment. In the basic deployment architecture illustrated in a web application comprises logic performed by the data processors A which manages communications between the server system and users e.g. 15 including establishing web sessions using a communication protocol such as HTTP sending web pages composed with support of the presentation engine B and responding to actions executed by the user which results in messages to the server for initiation of interest nodes refinement of interest nodes and in general navigating the information files presented. A profile database B stores user profiles that include interest nodes. A personalization engine B computes a node result for each selected interest node which consists of a filtered set of information files generated using the parameters of the interest nodes. In addition it generates channel pages based on the node results of selected interest nodes and other pages. A front page format can be used which reflects node results for a plurality of interest nodes using a full user profile. The user operating at terminal for example reads the front page and channel pages in a browser and produces indications to initiate routines to create and refine interest nodes.

The set of presentation functions block composes graphical user interfaces in the form of electronic documents for rendering by user terminals. The graphical user interfaces are rendered and displayed using a browser e mail the SMS communication system or otherwise that include a representation of a filtered set of information files with mark up to support direct signals from the user to the server in support of maintaining a user s profile data structure. Thus a user can explicitly signal an update to an interest node within the user s profile data structure to add a specific target to the filtering process and to cause the filtering process to produce more information about the specific target. The graphical user interface is managed to provide instant value to the user based on such direct signaling as well as feedback on how use of a specific typed attribute will affect future results sets.

In the set of analyze functions block text analytic functions are performed on information files that are collected. These functions produce a rich set of mark up including metadata fields and annotations that mark key elements including typed attributes within the text of each information file. These metadata and annotations are utilized for matching and presenting information files to the user and structuring the process of updating the user s interest profile data structure. The typed attributes included in the metadata and annotations include for example the following 

Some metadata and annotations are provided by some of the sources of information files and such metadata and annotations can be parsed and included in marked up information files by the server . Information files are stored in a document format in the database suitable for use in the filtering process such as a format consistent with industry standard formats such as RSS 2.0 Atom 1.0 and the Universal Feed Parser. For example the stored computer readable documents may have a format such as the following 

The analyze functions represented by block also include categorization using classification technology to categorize information files into subjects or topics drawn from one or more taxonomies. The analyze functions provide entity extraction utilized to label entities within the information files. The analyze functions provide deduping to recognize duplicate items that may arise from retrieving information files from multiple sources and also to recognize updates of items which can be important to support in any information presentation system.

In addition the analyze functions provide clustering and linking processes. Related information files are grouped and linked to support more effective presentation. For example the analyze functions can provide same event clustering by which information files about the same in event or happening are annotated as belonging to groups such as when news items covered by many publications appear in the filtered set of information files. Also related content clustering is used to group related items by annotating information files as belonging to a group such as discussions opinions and analysis articles so on within a given time period. This can extend to current hot discussion topics as they arise on blogs and community sites which may be triggered by news events or initial articles within the blogs by individuals. The analyze functions also provide a summarizing process by which information files and groups of information files are summarized to provide more efficient display minimizing the overhead of consuming redundant and related information.

The personalize functions include maintaining a data structure for a user profile which explicitly represents one or more of the user s needs or interests. A basic schema including a user profile can be represented as follows 

In this data structure a user s needs or interests are operationalized as computer implemented interest nodes which can be arranged in a hierarchical tree or otherwise. The interest nodes include parameters of the use of the profile referring to a range of needs and interests of the user which can be characterized using typed attributes. The name and description of a particular interest node can be entered directly by a user. The Interest Nodes are composed of two types of elements including targets which are typed attributes indicating the whats of interest and qualifiers which are typed attributes indicating representing other attributes of interest that affect the ranking filtering composition and delivery process. Targets can be classified for use by the matching algorithms as required must be matched in every file of result set preferred not necessarily matched in all files and excluded must not be matched in the files of the result set .

This basic schema also includes a list of sources Sources and lists of kinds of typed attributes Targets which can be used as targets in an interest node.

Targets as used herein are arguments used by the personalize engine implemented within the profile data structure and associated with specific Interest Nodes. Representative types of targets include entities topics phrases and concepts which can be defined as follows 

Entities identify particular objects in the world. Entities within the entity type attribute are further typed and include both broad entity types like people companies and products and narrower or specialized types like sports teams proteins or pathogens.

Topics identify subject matters. Topics can be drawn from any number of general and specialized taxonomies covering areas of content supported over time. For example taxonomies can be provided for general interest business health patents areas of science and so on. Taxonomies can be actively curated to provide further adaptation the filtering process.

Phrases are free form words often phrases having more than one word that are entered by a user as they might be entered in a typical search box or selected from displayed text. In general Phrases may be matched literally or using straightforward transformations like stemming spelling correction and so on.

Concepts are typed attributes that have some properties of Phrases and some properties of topics but allowing for a wider range of alternative forms for the concept. Concepts can be matched using a variety of additional related attributes. Unlike phrases concepts are more statistically important in usage and the news such global financial crisis tobacco taxes national championships etc. Unlike topics concepts are not originated from static taxonomies. Concepts are produced by statistical text analysis of new articles and queries to identify frequently occurring phrases or other attributes which suggest that the file given the particular concept type attribute is related to a larger concept.

Qualifiers are additional attributes associated with Interest Nodes in the profile data structure. Attributes usable as qualifiers can include both visible or hidden aspects of information files which can satisfy the user s interest as defined by the filtering engine. Qualifiers may be explicitly provided by a user using a graphical user interface or learned by the system during use. Qualifiers can be used to increase relevance in general and to improve salience and clarity in the composition process by boosting or reducing the weight of certain factors. Qualifiers would be used to model factors related to breadth and depth of interest. Examples of qualification include the fact that the same targets may be in a plurality of interest nodes in different user profiles. However one user profile may qualify the target by the fact that the user is a specialist in that area and may desire deeper content such as content from a specialized group of sources filtered by provenance tags form tags or genre tags. Alternatively a qualifier might is to indicate a casual or light interest in a particular interest such as for example photography. Although a number of articles may match the targets within a casual interest the filtering and composition functions may pass only information files carrying tags indicating that they are particularly popular or apply delivery rate functions to allow only the occasional articles for delivery and display.

Qualifiers also include presentation and delivery factors that relate to when the information is requested and where the information is delivered. The electronic documents produced using the result sets are composed using qualifiers that specify the platform to which it is to be delivered. For a full function browser at the user terminal the web application is used to produce a rich page for large format display for a cell phone or personal digital assistant browser the web application is used to produce a reduced result set or a page layout that is more suited to the small format display for an instance of the user terminal that involves delivery within a web page like a Facebook page a blog or another specialized cite the personalization engine can apply the parameters that define the boundaries of the available channel for an instance operating via email or another communication protocol the personalization engine is used to adapt the content appropriately. Likewise time qualifiers can be used to emphasize different interest nodes or different targets within an interest node at different times of the day different days of the week or publication cycles relevant to the interest node and the sources used by the interest node.

The particular interest nodes have a structure that is independent of the manner in which the nodes are created in this example. Typically the name and description of the interest node can be input by the user.

The system can include logic that keeps track of the history of the creation and modification of the parameters of interest nodes the context of the action used for the creation and modification and the mechanism used for that purpose.

Interest Nodes in the profile data structures can be created using a number of basic approaches. In many cases the user creates the interest node incrementally and gets feedback as they update the interest nodes during future sessions. In a first technique a user searches for information files related to an interest which the user would like to track. The user may enter targets of any type into a search box on a graphical user interface. The input targets are used by the filtering engine to produce a filtered set of information files and then to present an instance of the filtered set for display to the user. The user then browses the results using interactive tools provided by the mark up in a graphical user interface to add targets to a current basket. The users given the option to save the basket of targets as a new interest node for future use.

A second technique for creation of Interest Nodes involves using the displayed results of a filtering operation such as an overview page displaying results from a plurality of information nodes within a user s profile or a page displaying a set of information items filtered by a chosen interest node and giving tools to select targets of interest for addition to the corresponding interest node. This method allows a user to personalize generic categories and or refine special purpose categories over time.

The list of sources in the profile data structure is a set of sources that may limit or bias the interest node. A user s interest node is typically not source constrained. However in practical settings a user can confine or bias filtering for particular interests by emphasizing or excluding particular sources. Sources can be used as qualifiers that affect the weight given to a particular information file used in ranking the file for selection in the electronic document presented to the user that results from the filtering.

The server provides tools to the user to perform interest node creation and editing by first analyzing the information files included in the filtered set of information files to be presented to create metadata in the form of typed attributes which are reflected in our characterized the information files. In the creation of the electronic document used at the user terminal to render the graphic user interface the server adds markup that tags the typed attributes within the display representations of the information files and provides summary panes on the graphic user interface in which tag attributes of the filtered set of information files as a whole are listed and markup. The markup on the graphical user interface acts both as a prompt for the user to consider the typed attributes as a candidate target or qualifier for the interest node and as a tool which allows the user to automatically add or delete the typed attribute from the interest node. In this way interest nodes can be created and refined in the process of reading the pages delivered by the server to the user. They can be initiated using a number of the tools provided by the markup and further refined immediately and over time as the user chooses.

The server composes an electronic document that is rendered at the user terminal to provide graphical user interface to the user by which the user is provided tools such as hyperlinks pop up menus and the like using markup and scripts to create and edit the contents of specific interest nodes within the user s profile data structure by adding and deleting targets and qualifiers. The tools in the graphical user interface facilitate interaction to add and remove targets from an interest node in a user profile data structure. The tools are set up so that they become a natural part of obtaining relevant items and browsing the filtered set of information files currently being presented. Also the tools are set up to provide additional relevant results in response to the user s steering of the content of interest nodes. In addition to explicit user steering the server may provide additional processes for automatic maintenance of interest nodes including for example the following 

The personalize engine also provides filtering processes. In an example filtering process described here the filtering consists of three steps. In the first step a set of information files are collected by matching an interest node against an index that includes the content and the metadata fields of information files. The candidate filtered set of information files is scored and ordered based on relevance to the targets included in the interest node as is done in typical search engines and enhanced by the processing of the information files and use of profile data structures as described herein. The second step computes an additional set of scores for each information file representing qualifiers for the information files such as authority or liveliness which can be computed from a variety of available statistics associated as metadata or otherwise related to the information files and content analysis applied to the information files including provenance hit counts timeliness etc. In a third step the scores are collectively used by an algorithm to generate a small and balanced set of relevant information files to be included in the electronic documents for delivery to the user.

A data structure for representing the filtered set of information files output by the personalization engine in a result set object format as shown below. A data structure for a result set object including an array of documents can be as follows 

A data structure having a document object format for the documents in the data structure for the result set can be as follows 

A similar object is created for the rendered instance of the graphical user interface encapsulating the subset of the documents to be used in the display taken from the result set.

The personalize engine including a web application executes a composition process which takes the filtered set of information files generated by the filtering process and creates an instance of an electronic document using HTML XML or other markup or scripting languages or combinations of languages for delivery to the user via a communication infrastructure. The electronic document is to be used at a user terminal to render a graphical user interface. The composition process selects appropriate metadata and content for each information file in the filtered set to include in a display and generates mark up objects usable by the user for communication with the server. The display rendered using the electronic document serves a number of coordinated purposes including allowing users to consume the information quickly demonstrate how the information matches interest nodes in the user s profile and indicate useful typed attributes suggested or contained by the information to assist modification of the interest node.

The personalize engine passes the filtered set of information files along with the metadata content and mark up selected and generated by the composition process to the presentation engine which can be implemented with the web application A of an email system or the like. Presentation engine manages interaction with the user via a graphical user interface and the communications infrastructure.

The markup tools enable a user operation which can be referred to as arrowing. Arrowing refers to the process of the user pointing and clicking on a markup on the presented page where the markup can identify typed attributes available as a candidate target as a candidate qualifier or as other attributes of an interest node within a user profile.

For node creation the markup enables arrowing of targets and sources on the user s webpage. In this process the user browses items on an overview page of recent content or on page is organized into pre existing topic areas. The markup identifies sources and other typed attributes suitable for use as targets within an information file. If a user clicks or otherwise selects a markup associated with particular attribute a message is generated to the server identifying the selected markup and an interest node can be created including the attribute associated with that selected markup as part of the profile. The context of the information file can be used to provide additional elements for the initial definition of interest node. For example the user can click on typed attributes used for targets within pages focused on broad categories of news such as politics sports or entertainment. From these broad categories additional targets can be included in that interest node or proposed explicitly to the user for inclusion.

Also usable in node creation the markup enables arrowing of specific information files. In this technique the user may click on markup associated with a displayed information file such as a link associated with the title of the document to initiate an interest node based on the metadata and content associated with that information file. In response the system returns an electronic document which can be rendered to display a set of targets and qualifiers which the user can select for addition to the interest node.

The electronic document produced by the server also includes a tool enabling basic searching as a technique for initiating the creation of an interest node. The basic searching tool enables a user to search for items related to an interest which the user would like to track. Any of the target types can be used in the search box on a webpage which I then returned to the server and used for producing a set of results. The set of results created as a result of the search is processed and marked up as described above to facilitate refinement of the interest node.

The server may also provide tools that display existing interest nodes or interest node templates created by others that can be adopted by a user. In another technique for node creation the server may enable the user to upload information files or links to information files from outside the system that reflect an interest of the user. The server may then analyze the information file submitted to mine candidate targets and qualifiers from it. Electronic document is produced at the server in which presents the candidate targets and qualifiers to the user with markup to enable interest node creation and refinement.

The overview page shown in also includes a representation of a filtered set of information files under the category My Interests . For example in the region a summary of an article selected based on the real estate interest node is displayed. The summary includes annotations in the form of highlighting of entity type attributes named in the text such as Freddy Mac and mark up in the form of an up arrow adjacent the highlighted entities. These two types of mark up launch different functions as described in more detail below associated with the management of the user s profile data structure and the filtering processes. In addition to the mark up of text within the displayed summary topic type attributes associated with the summarized article such as Freddy Mac derived from a taxonomy applied during a analysis process are displayed adjacent the headline for the summary. Coincidentally in this example the entity type attribute highlighted in the text and the topic type attribute derived from a taxonomy include the same term.

A graphical user interface includes a pane on the left listing the interest nodes for the current user and showing a current selected interest node in an expanded format that lists the targets within the interest node in the region .

The graphical user interface includes a pane in the center in which summaries of information files selected for presentation are displayed. In addition the graphical user interface includes a list of entity type attributes in the box labeled Current Things which had been extracted from the filtered set of information files used to produce this representation of the interface. In the box labeled Current Topics a list of topic type attributes from a taxonomy which had been extracted from the filtered set of information files is presented. The entity type attributes and topic type attributes are include mark up to annotate them on the display by highlighting and by the use of the up arrow symbol allowing the user to select the mark up to induce functions related to management of the users profile described in more detail below.

The status bar shown in also illustrates a manner in which the status bar is modified if the user enters a search term in the search box on the right side of the status bar and induces the system to produce a new filtered set of information files modified by the search term. In this case an instance of the graphical user interface will be created in which the current selected interest node will be displayed in the status bar followed by which is in turn followed by the search terms used for the modification. This provides immediate and constant feedback concerning the manner in which the information presented was produced facilitating the management of user interest nodes.

For node refinement electronic document includes markup which in response to a user action that arrows and information file such as by mousing over markup of the title of the information file produces a widget includes an indicator e.g. an up arrow selectable to indicate interest in the arrowed target or source and an indicator e.g. a down arrow selectable to indicate lack of interest in the arrowed information file. shows an excerpt of an overview page for example like that of showing information files selected in response to an interest node entitled social media . An up arrow down arrow widget is displayed as the user moves the cursor over markup identifying an information file such as the tag associated with the title of the information file. The information file shown in is identified by a title Salesforce Adds Twitter Teases Rivals . By mousing over the title the user invokes the widget which includes an up arrow and down arrow in this example. The widget can take a wide variety of formats including simply yes no text for example.

Also the electronic document used for rendition of the graphical interface includes markup of specific typed attributes represented by or associated with information files on the page which in response to a user action that arrows mark up identifying typed attributes usable as targets sources or qualifiers on the page produces a widget that includes an indicator e.g. an up arrow selectable to indicate interest in the arrowed typed attribute as a target source or qualifier and an indicator e.g. a down arrow selectable to indicate lack of interest in the arrowed typed attribute. By selecting the indicator of interest in the arrowed typed attribute as a target source or qualifier a message is returned to the server which adds the marked up typed attribute to the interest node as a target source or qualifier.

Node refinement is also supported by adding markup to the electronic document which is rendered to present tools that allow interest node editing. The definition of the interest node is displayed to the user typically at the top of the channel page. The node definition is presented in a block that allows the user to add it directly adding or removing targets sources and qualifiers. Automatic completion programs can be utilized to support the editing based on topics entities key phrases concepts and other typed attributes known to the system.

Node refinement is also supported in some embodiments by adding markup to the electronic document which is rendered to present a set of recommended typed attributes which can be used as targets for sources in an interest node. The recommended list of typed attributes can be generated using analysis of the information files the user s profile and node definition and related or similar user profiles and node definitions known to the system.

For example the personalization engine can generate a list of typed attributes which are candidates to add as targets or qualifiers to an interest node. One case of this function is illustrated in in response to information file arrowing. Candidate typed attributes can also be listed and presented as markup on the display and other settings that do not require user action. For example recommended entities and topics are listed in the panes of . Thus lists of recommended typed attributes can be identified by markup and presented to the user on a page focused on a specific channel or interest node or when the recommendation is particularly strong based on analysis of the behavior of the user or other parameters in the interest node.

Generally typed attributes can be recommended as targets and sources for an interest node profile based on content metadata usage data captured in the system for the particular user and aggregated over all users and possibly other data from third party sources through harvesting and other automated processes. Factors used to determine whether to recommend a typed attribute include usage content editorial ratings popularity and other users. Some examples include recommending typed attributes as targets that are common across items matching the channel that co occur with existing targets frequently and other information files in the collection that are associated with existing targets by processes such as efficient editorial review and that are common and popular in channels across other users particularly users that have similar interest nodes or profiles.

An algorithm executed by the server for example in the personalization engine can produce the typed attributes to be presented to the user by processing the metadata associated with the identified information file and the other information files that are included in the filtered set of information files presented for the current interest node. One algorithm for performing this analysis includes the following 

Technology for open profile personalization for content delivery is provided that enables the users to leverage more sophisticated content analysis than possible and prior art by surfacing various kinds typed attributes of the information files and of sets of information files. The typed attributes are used as arguments in a plurality of procedures to filter and rank information files.

While the present invention is disclosed by reference to the preferred embodiments and examples detailed above it is to be understood that these examples are intended in an illustrative rather than in a limiting sense. It is contemplated that modifications and combinations will readily occur to those skilled in the art which modifications and combinations will be within the spirit of the invention and the scope of the following claims.

