---

title: Controlling a shared service
abstract: A method includes determining whether a first amount of liability contributed by a first subscriber during a provision of a service to the first subscriber exceeds a first balance indicative of a first portion of available funding that may be consumed by the first subscriber, determining whether a second amount of liability contributed by a second subscriber during a provision of a service to the second subscriber exceeds a second balance indicative of a second portion of the available funding that may be consumed by the second subscriber, issuing a first communication to a device to affect the provision of a service to the first subscriber if the first amount of liability exceeds the first balance, and issuing a second communication to the device to affect the provision of a service to the second subscriber if the second amount of liability exceeds the second balance.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08655759&OS=08655759&RS=08655759
owner: Comverse, Inc.
number: 08655759
owner_city: Wakefield
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090430
---
The present disclosure relates to a technique for controlling usage of a shared service such a mobile telephone service being provided to a group of subscribers or group of accounts in real time.

The approaches described in this section are approaches that could be pursued but not necessarily approaches that have been previously conceived or pursued. Therefore unless otherwise indicated the approaches described in this section may not be prior art to the claims in this application and are not admitted to be prior art by inclusion in this section.

Service providers for example a service provider for mobile telephone communication may provide plans or packages that include a service for more than one user so that the users share an account or more than one account established by the plan. The accounts may include a sum of minutes shared by the users during use of their phones. However the service provider incurs risk when providing the service to accounts and subscribers of accounts without pre payment such as possible losses due to non payment. This risk increases with each additional user and account due to the increase in usage of the service. Moreover users may desire service providers limit use of the service in order to decrease cost. Accordingly service providers have a necessity for control.

The present document discloses a technique for controlling usage of a service by more than one subscriber or account.

A method includes obtaining a liability limit indicative of an available funding determining whether a first amount of liability contributed by a first subscriber during a provision of a service to the first subscriber exceeds a first balance indicative of a first portion of the available funding that may be consumed by the first subscriber determining whether a second amount of liability contributed by a second subscriber during a provision of a service to the second subscriber exceeds a second balance indicative of a second portion of the available funding that may be consumed by the second subscriber issuing a first communication to a device to affect the provision of a service to the first subscriber if the first amount of liability exceeds the first balance and issuing a second communication to the device to affect the provision of a service to the second subscriber if the second amount of liability exceeds the second balance.

A method includes obtaining a hierarchy of a first account having a first subscriber and a second account having a second subscriber the second account being lower in the hierarchy than the first account obtaining a a first liability limit indicative of a first available funding to the first account and b a second liability limit indicative of a second available funding to the second account maintaining a first running total that includes a sum of a a first amount of liability contributed by the first subscriber during a provision of a service to the first subscriber and b a second amount of liability contributed by the second subscriber during a provision of a service to the second subscriber determining whether the first running total exceeds the first liability limit issuing a first communication to a device to affect the provision of a service to the first subscriber and the provision of a service to the second subscriber if the first running total exceeds the first liability limit.

A component or a feature that is common to more than one drawing is indicated with the same reference number in each of the drawings.

The present description introduces a concept referred to herein as a total monetary liability. Total monetary liability is a specific type of sum defined for controlling consumption of funds from another source. Funds include monetary sums goods and services. Services may include goods and or services. In more detail total monetary liability includes a running total of a sum of an amount of liability or funds consumed. The running total has a value that reflects debits to the account increasing the total monetary liability and credits to the account decreasing the total monetary liability.

The present description also introduces a concept referred to herein as a total monetary liability limit. The total monetary liability limit is a value of the running total. The total monetary liability limit may be a maximum financial exposure that a source is willing to extend to an account.

At the end of the present description there is a table namely Table 3 which contains definitions of some other terms.

A source such as a provider of service incurs risk when providing funds to accounts and subscribers of accounts without pre payment such as possible losses due to non payment. This risk is increased where there is more than one subscriber of an account or more than one account in a hierarchy due to increased use of the service. A total monetary liability system TML system provided herein obtains a total monetary liability limit for an account that is indicative of an available amount of funding predetermined by the source or service provider. The TML system maintains a total monetary liability that is a running total for an amount of liability contributed by subscribers of each account or accounts within a defined scope. The TML system determines whether the total monetary liability exceeds the total monetary liability limit in order to notify the source or subscribers. If the total monetary liability exceeds the total monetary liability limit a communication may be issued to affect the provision of a service to the subscriber. The communication issued may affect the provision of a service in order to notify the subscriber or terminate usage of the service. The term exceed as used herein includes reaching or exceeding.

The TML system may also determine an available total monetary liability available TML that equals an amount of a total monetary liability below a total monetary limit. The available TML is indicative of a portion of an available funding that may be consumed by a subscriber or account prior to the total monetary liability exceeding the total monetary liability limit. A communication of the available TML may be issued for example to a network indicating that usage of funds can only be allowed for an amount of time that corresponds to the available TML or indicating that the subscriber or account can only consume up to an amount that corresponds to the available TML and the network is obligated to terminate usage of funds when this amount for example consumption level is reached.

An amount of liability contributed by each subscriber during a provision of a service to each subscriber may be determined to exceed a balance that is indicative of a portion of the available funding that may be consumed by each subscriber. If the amount of liability of one of the subscribers exceeds the balance that is indicative of the portion of the available funding that may be consumed by the subscriber a communication to a device to affect the provision of a service to the subscriber is issued. As above the affect of the provision of a service may be issued in order to notify the subscriber or terminate usage of the service.

Thus the TML system maintains in real time the total monetary liability and determines an available TML or if the total monetary liability exceeds a total monetary liability limit during consumption of the funds so that action may be taken as soon as the total monetary liability exceeds a total monetary liability limit. By using a current up to date value of the total monetary liability as well as the total monetary liability limit for example when used with on line authorization and charging for usage a merchant or service provider can inhibit further usage of an account including usage by any and all members or subscribers of the account once the total monetary liability limit has been reached. The restrictions can be relaxed for example when the total monetary liability has either been reduced by credit to the account e.g. payment or the merchant agrees to increase the account s total monetary liability limit.

Referring to an account structure has an account that contains a TML system that obtains a total monetary liability limit and maintains overall total monetary liability of account .

Account has a single account offer which in turn establishes three account balances and . The three account balances and are available for use to pay for goods and services for all subscribers of account including subscribers and . The account offer also dictates charges and terms of usage for account .

Account has subscriber that is a member of account . Subscriber has a subscriber offer which dictates the terms conditions and rates for usage by subscriber . Subscriber offer also establishes subscriber balances and . Subscriber balances and are available to be used to pay for goods and services by subscriber only.

Account has subscriber that is a member of account . Subscriber has a subscriber offer which dictates the terms conditions and rates for usage by subscriber . Subscriber offer also establishes subscriber balances and . Subscriber balances and are available to be used to pay for goods and services by subscriber only. Subscriber offer and subscriber offer are the same however subscriber offer and subscriber offer may be different.

Account has subscriber that is a member of account . Subscriber has a subscriber offer which dictates the terms conditions and rates for usage by subscriber . This offer also establishes subscriber balance . Subscriber balance is available to be used to pay for goods and services by subscriber only.

Total monetary liability reflects a liability of account . Total monetary liability is affected by and affects use of all currency balances within account including subscriber balances . Account balance and subscriber balances and are non currency balances. Non currency balances such as short message services SMS may not affect nor are they affected by total monetary liability . For example a plan may be purchased from a service provider that for 10 provides 500 SMSs per month with any overage charged at 0.10 per SMS. The 10 charge for the plan would be applied to total monetary liability. Each month would be started with the SMS balance set to 500 and the 10 applied to the total monetary liability. As each of the first 500 SMSs is used and charged the SMS balance would be decremented by one however the total monetary liability would not be affected because the 10 for the monthly allotment. When the user does an SMS beyond the initial 500 the SMS balance would be 0 so 0.10 would be charged. This 0.10 charge would be applied to the total monetary liability. Accordingly the total monetary liability may be only affected by currency changes.

Each subscriber is limited by their available balances. For example subscriber is limited by balances and subscriber is limited by balances and and subscriber is limited by balance . Additionally each subscriber is limited by the account total monetary liability limit for example subscribers and are limited by total monetary liability limit . These are essentially independent parallel checks or limits that are applied.

Total monetary liability is a sum of liability for example through use of goods and services contributed by account and subscribers and . TML system maintains total monetary liability and determines when total liability exceeds total monetary liability . In addition TML system may also determine an available TML that equals an amount of total monetary liability below total monetary limit . The available TML is indicative of a portion of an available funding that may be consumed by account and subscribers and prior to total monetary liability exceeding total monetary liability limit .

Referring to an account structure including an account hierarchy configuration has a more complex hierarchical structure than configuration including accounts and that are sub accounts or lower on the hierarchy than account . This becomes important when it comes to a scope of TML systems and .

Referring to configuration has scopes and . By default a scope of a TML system having a total monetary liability and a total monetary liability limit is an account and all subscribers directly associated to the account. Scope of TML system includes account and subscribers and . Scope of TML system includes account and subscriber . Scope of TML system includes account . Scope of TML system includes account and subscriber . Scope of TML system includes account and subscribers and . Scope of TML system includes account and subscriber . Scope of TML system includes account and subscriber . Scope of TML system includes account and subscriber . There is no overlap of TML systems and .

Accordingly the total monetary liability of each account includes a sum of liability contributed by the account and all subscribers directly associated to the account. The TML system of each account determines when the total monetary liability exceeds the total monetary liability limit of the TML system. For example TML system has a total monetary liability that maintains a sum of liability contributed by account and subscribers and and determines when the total monetary liability exceeds the total liability limit of TML system .

In addition as discussed above scope of TML system covers liability directly associated to account as well as that of single subscriber directly associated to account . Accordingly the total monetary liability of TML system maintains a sum of liability contributed by account and subscriber and determines when the total monetary liability exceeds the total monetary liability limit of TML system . Scope of TML system covers liability directly associated to account as well as that of single subscriber directly associated to account . Accordingly the total monetary liability of TML system maintains a sum of liability contributed by account and subscriber and determines when the total monetary liability exceeds the total monetary liability limit of TML system . Scope of TML system covers liability directly associated to account as well as that of subscribers and directly associated to account . Accordingly the total monetary liability of TML system maintains a sum of liability contributed by account and subscribers and and determines when the total monetary liability exceeds the total monetary liability limit of TML system .

The TML system of each scope has an available TML that equals an amount of the total monetary liability below the total monetary limit. When the total monetary liability exceeds the total monetary limit there is no more available TML or the available TML equals zero. A subscriber may be within more than one scope. The minimum of the available TMLs of the scopes that the subscriber or account is within limits subscriber or account as will be further described in an example of Table 2. In addition when the total monetary liabilities exceeds the total monetary liability limits of any of the scopes the account or subscriber is within a communication may be issued to affect the provision of a service to subscriber or account.

For example subscriber is within scope and . TML system has an available TML that equals an amount of total monetary liability below the total monetary liability limit of TML system . TML system has an available TML that equals an amount of total monetary liability below the total monetary liability limit of TML system . The minimum available TML of scopes and limits subscriber so that subscriber may not use funds that exceed the minimum available TML prior to one of the total monetary liabilities exceeding one of the total monetary liability limits of one of the TML systems.

In contrast an account or subscriber in a single scope is limited by an available TML of the single scope. For example subscriber is only within scope . An available TML of scope is an amount of total monetary liability below the total monetary liability limit of TML system . Subscriber and or subscribers and may use funds equal to the available TML of TML system prior to the total monetary liability exceeding the total monetary liability limit of TML system .

TML system has an available TML that equals an amount of total monetary liability below the total monetary liability limit of TML system . TML system has an available TML that equals an amount of total monetary liability below the total monetary liability limit of TML system . The minimum available TML of scopes and limits subscriber so that subscriber may not use funds that exceed the minimum available TML prior to one of the total monetary liabilities exceeding one of the total monetary liability limits of one of the TML systems.

In contrast an account or subscriber in a single scope is limited by an available TML of the single scope. For example subscriber is only within scope . An available TML of scope is an amount of total monetary liability below the total monetary liability limit of TML system . Subscriber may not use funds that exceed the available TML prior to the total monetary liability exceeding the total monetary liability limit. In addition accounts and maintain independent TML systems and so that scopes and are similar to .

Scope of TML system covers accounts and and overlaps TML systems and . Accordingly the total monetary liability of TML system includes liability contributed by accounts and and subscribers and . TML system has an available TML that equals an amount of the total monetary liability below the total monetary liability limit of TML system . Scope of TML system includes account and subscriber and the total monetary liability of TML system includes liability contributed by account and subscriber . TML system has an available TML that equals an amount of the total monetary liability below the total monetary liability limit of TML system . Scope of TML system includes account and subscriber and the total monetary liability of TML system includes liability contributed by account and subscriber . TML system has an available TML that equals an amount of the total monetary liability below the total monetary liability limit of TML system . Scope of TML system includes account and subscriber and the total monetary liability of TML system includes liability contributed by account and subscriber . TML system has an available TML that equals an amount of the total monetary liability below the total monetary liability limit of TML system . The minimum available TML of each of the scopes an account or subscriber is within limits the account or subscriber so that the account or subscriber may not use funds that exceed the minimum available TML prior to one of the total monetary liabilities exceeding one of the total monetary liability limits of one of the TML systems.

Referring to if a total monetary liability exceeds a total monetary liability limit or when a subscriber exceeds their balances a communication may be issued to affect the provision of a service to the subscribers or source or service providers. The affect of the provision of a service may be issued in order to notify the service provider or subscribers or terminate usage of the goods and services.

A communication of the available TML may be issued for example to a network indicating that goods and services can only be allowed for an amount of time that corresponds to the available TML. A communication of the available TML may be issued for example to indicate that subscribers prior to the total monetary liability exceeding the total monetary liability limit can only consume up to an amount that corresponds to the available TML so that the network is obligated to terminate service when this amount for example consumption level is reached.

The TML system can limit availability of liability or all postpaid currency balances across an account including account balances and subscriber balances so that the total monetary liability does not exceed the total monetary liability limit as will be further described in the examples below with reference to .

Subscriber has a subscriber offer which dictates the terms conditions and rates for usage by subscriber . Subscriber offer also establishes subscriber balance . Subscriber balance is available to be used to pay for goods and services by subscriber only. Subscriber has a subscriber offer which dictates the terms conditions and rates for usage by subscriber . Subscriber offer also establishes subscriber balance . Subscriber balance is available to be used to pay for goods and services by subscriber only. Subscriber has a subscriber offer which dictates the terms conditions and rates for usage by subscriber . Subscriber offer also establishes subscriber balance . Subscriber balance is available to be used to pay for goods and services by subscriber only.

Below is an example of configuration described in the context of a mobile telephone communication service the techniques described herein are not limited as such but instead could be employed in the context of other services such as a data communication service. Another exemplary service is a credit service for example a two members of a sales department each having a credit card with an individual balance and a total monetary liability. Accordingly for an attempted credit transaction TML system similar to TML system would be employed to control a device to permit deny or otherwise limit the transaction.

Account has total monetary liability with a total monetary liability limit of 20. Row 1 represents the starting conditions. Row 2 represents when subscriber performs a usage which is charged 8 the usage reduces balance by 8 and increase total monetary liability by 8. Row 3 represents when subscriber makes a 6 purchase that reduces balance by 6 and increases total monetary liability by 6. Note that total monetary liability now only has 6 available which effectively reduces the availability of balances and to 6 because an available amount in total monetary liability is less than an available amount in balances and . Row 4 represents when subscriber makes a call because account only has 6 of available credit the call is terminated after 6 minutes when total monetary liability reaches total monetary liability limit . Account and subscribers and of account are now unable to do anything that would require use of funds. Row 5 represents when subscriber attempts to make a call it is rejected due to lack of funds. Note that call attempts by subscribers and would also be rejected. Row 6 represents when subscriber makes a 10 payment running total monetary liability is reduced by 10 thereby allowing 10 of future charges for subscribers and of account .

Subscriber has a subscriber offer which dictates the terms conditions and rates for usage by subscriber . Subscriber offer also establishes subscriber balance . Subscriber balance is available to be used to pay for goods and services by subscriber only. Subscriber has a subscriber offer which dictates the terms conditions and rates for usage by subscriber . Subscriber offer also establishes subscriber balance . Subscriber balance is available to be used to pay for goods and services by subscriber only.

Account has an account that is a sub account directly associated to account . Account has TML system . TML system has a total monetary liability and a total monetary liability limit . Account has subscribers and directly associated to account . TML system has scope that includes account and subscribers and directly associated to account . Total monetary liability limit limits a liability of account and subscribers and .

Subscriber has a subscriber offer which dictates the terms conditions and rates for usage by subscriber . Subscriber offer also establishes subscriber balance . Subscriber balance is available to be used to pay for goods and services by subscriber only. Subscriber has a subscriber offer which dictates the terms conditions and rates for usage by subscriber . Subscriber offer also establishes subscriber balance . Subscriber balance is available to be used to pay for goods and services by subscriber only.

TML system has a scope that includes account and account so that total monetary liability overlaps total monetary liability . In scenarios with overlapping total monetary liabilities the minimum of the available TMLs of all applicable total monetary liabilities is used. The effect of this is that anything that affects total monetary liability will also affect total monetary liability but not vice versa . Total monetary liability can limit spending or liability contributed by in account .

Below is an example of configuration described in the context of a mobile telephone communication service the techniques described herein are not limited as such but instead could be employed in the context of other services such as a data communication service.

Row 1 of Table 2 represents starting conditions. Row 2 of Table 2 represents when subscriber who is part of account makes a 120 purchase that directly affects total monetary liability and balance but does not affect any of the other balances or total monetary liability . Row 3 of Table 2 represents when subscriber who is part of account makes a 140 purchase that not only directly affects total monetary liability the 140 purchase also directly affects total monetary liability . Since total monetary liability only has 240 remaining total monetary liability limits an availability of balance to 240. Since total monetary liability only has 60 remaining total monetary liability limits an availability of balance to 60. Row 4 of Table 2 represents when subscriber who is part of account makes a 200 purchase. The 200 purchase directly affects total monetary liability and balance . Since total monetary liability only has 40 remaining total monetary liability limits the availability of balance balance and balance to 40. Row 5 of Table 2 represents when a payment of 50 is made to account that directly affects total monetary liability . However the payment of 50 does not immediately make any more funds available to any of accounts and or balances and as they are limited due to the fact that total monetary liability has less available funds than total monetary liability .

Advantageously balances and may support concurrent usage as well ensuring that even with multiple simultaneous events affecting total monetary liabilities and e.g. multiple subscribers within the account performing simultaneous usage accounts and do not exceed total monetary liability limits and . That is just as balances and can use reservations and balance nibbling to support simultaneous consumption from the same balance TML amounts can be reserved. For example a subscriber has a single balance with 10. The subscriber wants to make a phone call that is charged 1.00 per minute. Based on the 10 of available balance the subscriber could potentially make a 10 minute phone call before running out of funds. However it is possible that while making this call the subscriber could perform additional activities such as starting a data session or maybe even making a second call for example as part of a three way call. If the subscriber were to make the second call for example at the same rate of 1.00 per minute then the subscriber does not have enough funds for the first call to be 10 minutes and the second call to be 10 minutes as this would be a total charge of 20.00 and the single balance is only has 10. A portion of the available 10.00 may be reserved a nibble of the balance when the first call is made and dedicate the portion to the first call. A size of the nibble or portion reserved is configurable. In this example a reservation of 3.00 may be made so that 7.00 is remaining for any other usage. If the first call goes beyond 3 minutes fully consumes the 3.00 reservation a second reservation assuming there are available funds to extend the first call for another few minutes may be made. Note that if during the first 3 minutes the subscriber made the second call at 1.00 per minute a second reservation for 3.00 may be made meaning that there was 3.00 reserved for the first call and 3.00 reserved for the second call and 4.00 remaining for other usage. When the usage ends a reconcile of the portions reserved may be made meaning that there is a charge for the used portion and a return of any unused portion to the balance. If the first call only lasted 2 minutes there would be a charge 2.00 and a return 1.00 to the single balance. This is reserving and balance nibbling. When it comes to a TML system the same reserving and balance nibbling may be performed. For example if a reserve of 3.00 from the single balance is made a reserve of 3.00 is also made in the total monetary liability in the TML system.

The TML system may trigger internal and external actions. Based on a value of the total monetary liability and a relationship to the total monetary liability limit another function around total monetary liability is a capability to trigger internal and external actions. One action is sending a message to an account owner or subscriber when the total monetary liability reaches the total monetary liability limit and when the total monetary liability goes below the total monetary liability limit. That is to inform an account owner that the account has reached a maximum allowed liability so that the owner is aware that no more goods or services may be purchased until the owner takes some action e.g. make a payment and inform the owner that total monetary liability has been reduced below the total monetary liability limit and that the account may now purchase goods and services.

The TML system can be used to trigger other internal and external actions as well. For example when the total monetary liability reaches the total monetary liability limit the merchant or source might want to trigger a credit watch on the account or perform some sort of other specialized business process to the account. Additionally in many applications such as telecommunication services individual goods and services are turned on off for particular entities e.g. accounts or subscribers by configuring specific network elements to allow inhibit a particular entity from using a particular service or purchasing a particular item. The total monetary liability reaching the total monetary liability limit could be used to trigger provisioning of these external network elements to deny authorization for an account and all subscribers of the account. Similarly when the total monetary liability is reduced from the total monetary liability limit e.g. a payment is made external network elements could be configured to allow usage for this account and all subscribers of the account.

Customer consumer purchases goods and services . Before being able to make purchases or use any goods and services customer consumer sets up an account with a merchant or source which specifies what goods and services may be purchased prices for these goods and services payment terms and anything else needed to manage interact with customer consumer .

Account customer management system is used to acquire and manage customers. Account customer management system records all terms and conditions of an agreement between customer consumer and merchant and controls and keeps records of all purchases and interactions with customer consumer . Account customer management system is where account information of customer consumer is stored which not only includes the agreement with respect to the prices of goods and services but also includes running totals of usage of the goods and services by customer consumer to date kept in balances and available credit.

Authorization pricing charging controls what goods and service the account and associated customers are allowed to consume based on the agreements between the merchant and the customer as well as well as logic to price and charge each consumption. Whether or not the consumption is allowed as well as the how it is priced and charged is dependent on many factors including agreements between customer consumer and the merchant current running totals and total monetary liability of customer consumer . Also authorization pricing charging supports real time authorization or authorization during usage by customer consumer allowing for usage and services by the account and or customers in the account to be rejected or stopped as soon as the account and or customer reaches certain conditions like exhausting available funds reaching the account credit limit etc. . For example if the customer is purchasing phone service and is paying one dollar per minute authorization pricing charging can terminate the call mid session as soon as the customer exhausts his available credit.

Account customer management system passes account information to authorization pricing charging including current subscriptions and account balance values so that authorization pricing charging can determine if the usage should be allowed and how to price and charge the usage. In turn authorization pricing charging passes back records of the usage including associated pricing and charging allowing account customer management system to record the usage and update the balances accordingly.

Goods and services are offered by the merchant and consumed by customer consumer . Goods and services could be simple transactions like buying a can of soda or more complex services like purchasing telecommunications services which includes monthly charges as well as individual charges for each usage within the month. When a customer attempts to performs a usage action goods and services notifies authorization pricing charging of customer consumer and what usage is being attempted and is authorization pricing charging ultimately responds to authorize deny the usage. If the usage is authorized authorization pricing charging also specifies for how long the usage is allowed e.g. maximum number of bytes allowed in a data session maximum duration of a phone call etc. .

Billing is a process by which the merchant sums up any unpaid charges and presents the sum to the customer with the expectation that the customer would respond with a payment. Billing could add or remove charges. For example billing may add monthly recurring charges or reduce charges by applying volume discounts or promotions. Any additional charges added or removed by billing is reflected in the running totals kept in account customer management system including total monetary liability. Account customer management system passes usage and other account specific information to billing so that billing performs the proper billing action on the account. In turn billing passes back information to account customer management system including the invoice itself as well as any new or adjusted charges. Account customer management system keeps the information for historical purposes and also adjusts any running balances based on new or adjusted charges from billing . Billing may add or remove charges to the account. The additions or subtractions by billing to the account are passed to TML management system so that the total monetary liability may be updated.

Payments by customer consumer to the merchant are typically based on bills invoices received. Any payments received are typically shown on the bills invoices and reflected in the total monetary liability of TML management system . When a payment is made the information of payment is passed to TML Management system so that total monetary liability may be updated. Customer consumer can make payments towards his accounts via financial institutions like banks credit debit cards cash or any other accepted payment method.

Payments are recorded in account customer management system for historical purposes so that this information can be viewed by customer consumer on demand or as part of an invoice. Additionally account customer management system applies payment towards the account performing the appropriate accounting logic E.g. updating A R balances and update the account status according to prescribed business rules. For example if the account was in arrears causing the account to have limited or restricted usage payment may cause these restrictions limitations to be restricted. Similarly account customer management system rewards the account for payment giving additional services or reduced process for existing services.

TML management system includes a running total of an amount of money owed by the account or funds consumed by customer consumer to the merchant or total monetary liability. Debits e.g. charges to the account increase the total monetary liability while credits e.g. payments decrement the total monetary liability. The TML management system includes updating of the total monetary liability based on credits and debits to the account.

Associated with each total monetary liability is a total monetary liability limit which can be a value set by the merchant. When the account s total monetary liability reaches the total monetary liability limit the account may be prohibited from accruing any additional charges until a payment is received to reduce the total monetary liability below the total monetary liability limit. The merchant may set the total monetary liability limit to a customer defined value typically if the total monetary liability limit defined by the customer is less that a the total monetary liability limit that the merchant would impose.

Account customer management system may control the total monetary liability limit so the total monetary liability limit information is passed to TML Management system . Additionally account customer management system may make financial adjustments to the account such as refunding charges correcting erroneous charges and the like. This information is passed to TML Management system as well again so the total monetary liability may be updated. The total monetary liability is passed from TML Management system to Account management so that the total monetary liability can be presented to customer consumer .

Authorization pricing charging uses the total monetary liability as part of an authorization process. The authorization process denies usage that will cause the total monetary liability to exceed the total monetary liability limit. Authorization pricing charging passes charging information related to usage to TML Management system so that the total monetary liability can be updated with the usage charges.

Customer consumer interacts with account customer management system to create and modify accounts add remove services get account history get running balance and TML values question charges make complaints and the like. Account customer management system responds to customer consumer requests as well as initiating contact to customer consumer with information about promotions low balance low credit warnings and the like. These contacts could be through a customer service representative or via self service kiosks automated voice systems telephone calls text messages e mails and analogous contacts. Once customer consumer has created an account goods and services may be purchased .

TML system acts as the interface between various components and a control of a total monetary liability of TML system and a control of a total monetary liability limit reside in an Account Record .

A workflow Engine using an interface can turn TML system on and off for an account can set modify total monetary liability limit can modify total monetary liability and can initiate actions based on a current value of total monetary liability .

A customer acquisition and management using an interface can turn TML system on and off for an account can set modify total monetary liability limit can modify total monetary liability and can report a current total monetary liability .

Billing via an interface can initiate adjustments to total monetary liability applying credits decreasing total monetary liability based on billing discounts and debits increasing total monetary liability based on additional charges. Additionally billing can access a current value of total monetary liability to be displayed on an invoice. TML systems can overlap and it is possible that a single change could affect multiple TML systems.

Payments via an interface can initiate credit adjustments to total monetary liability as payments are received on the account. Scopes of TML systems can overlap so it is possible that a single payment could affect multiple TML systems.

Adjustments via an interface on behalf of the account or any subscribers within the account can initiate credit adjustments to total monetary liability as adjustments e.g. refunds are received on the account. Scopes of TML systems can overlap so it is possible that a single adjustment could affect multiple TML systems.

Non Usage Processing and Charging via an interface on behalf of the account or any subscribers within the account can initiate adjustments debits and credits to total monetary liability as adjustments as non usage charges and credits are awarded to the account or to any subscribers within the scope of the TML. Scopes of TML systems can overlap so it is possible that a single non usage charge or credit could affect multiple TML systems. Additionally non usage charges may be prohibited or limited so that total monetary liability does not exceed total monetary liability limit

A product Catalog via an interface can affect TML system by setting default total monetary liability limit values which can be used or overridden.

Usage processing pricing and charging via interface on behalf of the account or any subscribers within the account can initiate adjustments debits and credits to total monetary liability value as adjustments as non usage charges and credits are awarded to the account or to any subscribers within the scope of TML system . Scopes of TML systems can overlap so it is possible that a single non usage charge or credit could affect multiple TML systems. Additionally usage may be prohibited or limited so that total monetary liability does not exceed a configured total monetary liability limit

Network elements via interface can be used as part of the usage authorization process. For example when the TML limit has been reached network elements can be provisioned to disallow goods and services. Similarly when the TML is reduced from the TML limit network elements can be provisioned to allow foods and services.

Notifications and reporting via an interface can report on values of total monetary liability and initiate actions in real time based on the relationship between total monetary liability and a configured total monetary liability limit . The running TML value can be reported at any time by whatever reporting mechanisms are supported by the merchant including IVR integrated voice response SMS text messages ussd Unstructured Supplementary Services Data text messages e mails internet web portals and the like.

User purchases mobile handset from a mobile service provider not shown . Handset communicates via a mobile telephony network a component of which is switch . Switch is configured to notify signaling gateway of any network events related to subscribers stored on system database . For example call offered call answered and call disconnected are three types of events for which signaling gateway would receive notification.

Signaling gateway in turn passes events to one or more Rating Servers . Rating Servers run software which among other rating calculations total monetary liability and factors total monetary liability into its calculations. As a result of these calculations Rating Servers will communicate back through Signaling Gateway to switch advising of conditions on account of user which may limit activities of user such as for example low balance conditions an available TML and when the total monetary liability is equal to or exceeds the total monetary liability limit. Switch is able to act on advice from Rating Server and affect call of user either by disconnecting denying or changing the quality of service. This scenario describes a real time rating and authorization capability or a rating and authorization capability where usage is allowed or denied based on calculations which are performed in sequence with the network events.

As charges for usage are calculated and applied system database is updated accordingly. Customer Management Server is connected to system database and provides administrative capabilities to clients such as Customer Care Terminal and Web Server . Customer Service Representative can use Customer Care Terminal to inform user about details of user s account and make any changes at a request of user . User can also manage their own account through their personal computer which is connected through public internet to Web Server .

As payments are made and applied system database is updated including total monetary liability. For example User via computer connected to internet makes a payment though payment gateway . Payment is processed in customer management server which includes updating the users information including total monetary liability in system database .

User could also make payment via customer service representative who would enter payment on customer care terminal which would process the payment request and via internal application programming interfaces request payment from payment gateway . Payment gateway would validate request then send payment information back to customer management server which would process the payment including updating the users information including total monetary liability in system database .

Processor performs operations of a TML system administrator . TML system administrator obtains a total monetary liability limit indicative of an available funding for each account. TML system administrator also maintains a total monetary liability that is a running total that includes a sum of the amount of liability contributed by subscriber during a provision of a service to subscriber and any other amount of liability contributed by another subscriber during a provision of a service to the other subscriber for example if the subscriber is in the same account or in an account with in the same scope as subscriber .

TML system administrator receives a communication i.e. event indicative of an event concerning a call being made by subscriber e.g. call offered call answered or call disconnected . TML system administrator may determine if total monetary liability exceeds total monetary liability limit . If total monetary liability exceeds total monetary liability limit TML system administrator issues or outputs a communication i.e. a condition indicative of a condition of user s account. TML system administrator may also determine whether an amount of liability contributed by subscriber during a provision of a service to subscriber exceeds a balance indicative of a portion of the available funding that may be consumed by subscriber . TML system administrator may also determine whether another amount of liability contributed by another subscriber during a provision of a service to the other subscriber exceeds a balance indicative of a portion of the available funding that may be consumed by the subscriber. If the amount of liability contributed by subscriber during the provision of a service to subscriber exceeds a balance indicative of the portion of the available funding that may be consumed by subscriber TML system administrator issues or outputs a communication i.e. a condition indicative of a condition of user s account. TML system administrator may also determine an available TML that equals an amount of total monetary liability below total monetary limit . The available TML is indicative of a portion of the available funding that may be consumed by the subscriber TML system administrator issues or outputs a communication i.e. a condition indicative of a condition of user s account namely the available TML for example to a network indicating that a service can only be allowed for an amount that corresponds to the available TML or indicating that subscriber can only consume up to an amount that corresponds to the available TML and the network is obligated to terminate service when this amount for example consumption level is reached.

Condition is communicated through signaling gateway to telephony switch . Telephony switch acts on condition and affects user s call either by disconnecting denying or changing the quality of service at a time of condition or at a time that corresponds to the available TML of condition .

As the call progresses TML system administrator receives information about the call e.g. duration of call and accordingly updates total monetary liability and the balance indicative of the portion of the available funding that may be consumed by the subscriber. If necessary TML system administrator issues a subsequent condition .

Rating server may be implemented in a general purpose computer for example by a service provider or source in which case TML system administrator may be implemented in software as a program module. Alternatively rating server may be implemented as an application specific device in hardware or firmware or a combination thereof. The term module is used herein to denote a functional operation that may be embodied either as a stand alone component or as an integrated configuration of a plurality of sub ordinate components.

Although TML system administrator is shown herein as being installed in memory TML system administrator can be tangibly embodied on an external computer readable storage medium for subsequent loading into memory . Storage medium can be any conventional storage medium including but not limited to a floppy disk a compact disk a magnetic tape a read only memory or an optical storage medium. TML system administrator could also be embodied in a random access memory or other type of electronic storage located on a remote storage system and coupled to memory .

The TML system advantageously allows an operator of the TML system to set the total monetary liability limit individually for each account including accounts that have multiple members based on whatever criteria they decide e.g. credit score . The TML system as well as balances indicative of a portion of available funding that may be consumed by each subscriber also advantageously prevents running up of excessive charges. Sources or service providers may support high risk users e.g. users with low credit scores by keeping tight control on spending. A subscriber advantageously may determine at any moment in time how much he owes the merchant or source through the total monetary liability and may limit the subscriber liability to the merchant.

Although are described in the context of a mobile telephone communication service the techniques described herein are not limited as such but instead could be employed in the context of other goods and or services such as a data communication service. Another exemplary service is a credit service for example two members of a sales department each having a credit card with an individual spending limit and a shared limit. Accordingly for an attempted credit transaction a rating server similar to rating server would be employed to control a device to permit deny or otherwise limit the transaction.

The techniques described herein are exemplary and should not be construed as implying any particular limitation on the present disclosure. Also steps associated with the processes described herein can be performed in any order unless otherwise specified or dictated by the steps themselves. It should be understood that various alternatives combinations and modifications could be devised by those skilled in the art. The present disclosure is intended to embrace all such alternatives modifications and variances that fall within the scope of the appended claims.

