---

title: Irrigation control system and method
abstract: An irrigation control system with a programmable controller having a high speed central processor and a touch screen monitor for independent and simultaneous operation of multiple watering stations and schedules. The touch screen monitor allows for quick entry of changes to irrigation schedules that can be made while the system is in use, thus preventing service interruption. The irrigation control system will accommodate multiple watering stations with precise accuracy and allows for independent start times for each station. Multiple output terminals permit connection to various watering stations as a pre-programmed, removable thumb drive containing the operating system and application software is connected through a USB port to a high speed central processor. The irrigation method describes using the controller for optimum plant growth and health.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08234014&OS=08234014&RS=08234014
owner: Eco-Precise Irrigation Controls, LLC
number: 08234014
owner_city: Jamestown
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20091102
---
A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

In compliance with 37 C.F.R. 1.52 e a computer program listing appendix incorporating features of the present invention is submitted herewith on compact disc and is incorporated by reference in its entirety herein. The computer program listing appendix is submitted on a first compact disc labeled Copy 1 and on a second compact disc labeled Copy 2 . Each disc was created 21 Oct. 2009 in an IBM PC machine format and Linux operating system compatibility with the disc labeled Copy 2 being an identical copy of the disc labeled Copy 1. Each compact disc contains a single file folder entitled Irrigation Control System and Method which is the source code of a computer program that may be used with the present invention. The Irrigation Control System and Method file folder having a size of 642 222 080 bytes was created on 21 Oct. 2009.

The Irrigation Control System And Method File Folder contains five 5 folders and one 1 document as follows 

The invention herein pertains to the irrigation of agricultural plants and the like and particularly pertains to irrigation processes and schedules involving multiple irrigation stations.

Irrigation control has become increasingly important in recent years with the high costs of labor plants raw materials water and other resources. Greenhouse owners farmers and other growers today require optimum growth and minimum percentage plant death more than ever before to remain competitive. While water was once an inexpensive resource it is becoming increasingly costly and now must be conserved for economical plant farming and greenhouse operation. Formerly many varieties and sizes of plants were watered under a single standard schedule. Now for conservation purposes plant varieties have to be scheduled according to the type and size of the plants in order to save energy and water. Where it was once suitable to water an entire greenhouse according to a single schedule now different plants and sections of the greenhouse may require multiple watering stations each operating on independent schedules. Further lightning is the number one cause of failure in the commercial controller industry.

Thus in view of the problems and limitations of prior irrigation control systems the present invention was conceived and one of its objectives is to provide an irrigation control system having an electronic controller with a high speed processor and a touch screen monitor for easy operation and simultaneous programming of multiple irrigation stations.

It is another objective of the present invention to provide an irrigation control system in which alterations can be made to irrigation schedules in a quick and convenient manner.

It is still another objective of the present invention to provide an irrigation control system which is modular in design to allow the system to expand based on the growing needs and rate of a particular owner.

It is yet another objective of the present invention to provide an irrigation control system which contains multiple independent programs with each program having multiple start times as needed.

It is also another objective of the present invention to provide an irrigation control system whereby any program can address any irrigation station and any irrigation station can be addressed by any or all programs.

It is a further objective of the present invention to provide an irrigation control system which will independently and simultaneously control multiple stations and programs.

It is still a further objective of the present invention to provide an irrigation control system which includes an AC power source input and station outputs which are protected from lightning and power surges.

It is yet a further objective of the present invention to provide an irrigation control system with a touch screen to provide graphic plots in twenty four hour cycles for each station.

It is another objective of the present invention to provide an irrigation control system which includes a standard thumb drive containing programming data for both the operating system and the application programs.

It is still another objective of the present invention to provide an irrigation control system which allows for precise independent scheduling for each station.

It is yet another objective of the present invention to provide data storage in non volatile memory to allow the programs of the irrigation control system to resume automatically after a power failure.

It is still a further objective of the present invention to provide a method of irrigating plants using an irrigation control system for a precise watering schedule which can be varied depending on the precise needs of the plants for optimum health and growth.

It is still yet a further objective of the present invention to provide an irrigation control system having an electronic controller with a high speed processor and a touch screen monitor for checking the system status and diagnostics system resulting in less down time and less maintenance cost.

Various other objectives and advantages of the present invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art as a more detailed description is set forth below.

The aforesaid and other objectives are realized by providing an irrigation control system and method which utilizes a high speed central processor and touch screen monitor. A conventional auxiliary circuit board is connected to a main circuit board both contained within a metal housing having a removable cover. The top of the metal housing is pivotally joined to a touch screen monitor affixed to the top of the housing for user convenience in activating monitoring programming changing and or adjusting irrigation schedules diagnosing field problems manually operating a station and running a system test for any of the various watering stations. The main circuit board is powered by a USB power source having a USB processor mounted thereon. Output terminals on the main circuit board allow for connection of expansion modules. Each expansion module module can drive up to eight 8 independent irrigation stations.

The auxiliary circuit board includes a central high speed processor ram memory a ram memory slot a display driver for the touch screen monitor and multiple USB ports. One USB port accommodates a pre programmed thumb drive containing both the operating system and application software.

Each module includes an output microprocessor which is connected to zero crossing detector circuitry station loop switches lightening over volt protection circuitry and open station loop switch circuitry.

The method of irrigating using the irrigation control system requires programming the central processor from the thumb drive selecting the proper irrigation schedule by use of the touch screen monitor and operating the electric control valve of particular stations to irrigate the plants associated therewith.

Irrigation control system allows efficiency for irrigation needs and simplified programming of multiple irrigation stations as outlined below 

Free commercially available Linux operating system compatible with central processor and USB processor is used to convert the source codes of the application specific firmware software and programs into machine language which central processor and USB processor as seen in the Figs. herewith can interpret. The application specific firmware software and programs are loaded into central processor for programming the same with the application specific firmware software and programs as described herein. The source codes of the application specific firmware software and programs for preferred irrigation control system are contained in the computer program listing appendixes submitted herewith.

For a better understanding of the invention and its operation turning now to the drawings illustrates in schematic fashion preferred irrigation control system with controller connected to irrigation station consisting of water line and sprinkler head for supplying water which is connected to water control solenoid valve . All components of irrigation station are conventional.

Controller housing as seen in is a powder coated aluminum enclosure for controller and is constructed to meet severe weather conditions and provides a well grounded durable system. As an option a stainless steel enclosure may be provided. Top cover on controller is mounted with draw latches and catches allowing removal for access to touch screen monitor . When installed top cover provides water resistance for controller .

Water control solenoid valve is joined by electrical conductor output wires to expansion module as shown in . Each expansion module can accommodate up to eight 8 independent irrigation stations but only one 1 irrigation station is shown with each expansion module in . Modules each include preferred output microprocessor Model No. PIC16F882 IS as conventionally available from a number of sources with imbedded firmware. Expansion module also seen in includes open loop detector circuitry zero crossing detector circuitry 24V output station loop switch lightening over volt protection circuitry and output terminals .

Preferred irrigation control system seen in provides main circuit board central high speed processor input terminals for up to four 4 event detectors remote control input terminal for remote control touch screen monitor to facilitate data backup transfer and module ports to accommodate expansion modules with communication paths as well as the mounting for output terminals . All the data from central processor as well as the DC voltage to power USB processor on main circuit board and expansion modules is received from central processor via USB ports and shown in .

All external inputs for example event detectors or remote controls are protected from high voltage and high current surges lightning by lightening over volt protection circuitry see as described in more detail below.

Central processor as seen schematically in is preferably Intel Model 945GCLF in industry standard Mini ATX format and affords high speed computing power to implement irrigation application programs. USB ports and display monitor output and mouse and keyboard outputs not shown are included on conventional auxiliary circuit board . Standard 512 MB RAM memory is used. DC power is supplied by standard ATX DC power supply . Central processor includes the necessary hardware and firmware software to read write to thumb drive read write to RAM memory transfer bidirectional data via four 4 separate USB ports and and provide signal formatting and data transfer to drive touch screen monitor and to accept data input for touch screen monitor . Although not used the ability to accept data via a keyboard and mouse not shown provides a communications capability that greatly aids software generation and factory production testing and trouble shooting.

Central processor is capable of accepting large memory banks and application software fully functional within 512 MB of RAM memory . All irrigation control system application firmware software operates fully from RAM memory . Upon startup system loads all data to RAM memory and application operations are implemented from RAM memory . Data is written back to thumb drive in USB Port only when the user makes a change in an application feature.

Central processor is positioned on auxiliary circuit board and USB processor on main circuit board receives data from central processor and is the data path to output microprocessors on expansion modules . Output microprocessor times and formats all data to and from central processor to expansion modules as well as formatting the input data from the system status monitor circuitry and directs this input data to central processor .

Main circuit board ties all the components of irrigation control system together. Functionality of main circuit board is varied as it interfaces central processor to expansion modules as well as providing the communication path for the system status data from expansion module to central processor . All the data from central processor as well as DC voltage to power output microprocessors are included and expansion modules are received from central processor via USB ports . Input terminals allow data from external sensors not shown to be directed to central processor as well as input for remote control data to direct central processor to implement specific actions. Main circuit board provides the capability for receiving up to five 5 expansion modules . Each expansion module contains module circuitry as seen in which provides eight 8 module ports two 2 shown schematically in . Thus preferred irrigation control system is capable of simultaneously driving up to forty 40 irrigation stations . Main circuit board is the distribution interface for the low voltage AC to output terminals see allowing replacement of expansion modules without the necessity of rewiring output terminals .

Touch screen monitor is a commercially available monitor manufactured by Intolux China Model SSDA07007 T manufactured by Southeast Marketing and distributed by SSD Southeast of Fuquay Varina N.C. Touch controller software drivers are standard offerings of the supplier.

Display monitor output as seen in provides the data path to drive touch screen monitor . Displayed on monitor are various screens to direct the user in application data input via touch screen monitor to select the desired action as well as to report the current selected application options. Also irrigation control system status is reported via touch screen monitor . Full function touch screen monitor does not require coded readouts of usual industry products.

Touch screen programming for the user is available by utilizing seven 7 inch 17.8 cm touch screen seen in of touch screen monitor which is the user friendly interface to central processor having 640 800 high resolution display. Programming system status and system diagnostics of system are all available at the touch of the user. Touch screen allows programming new operation checking on an old one manually operating an irrigation station diagnosing a field problem or running a system test. A help screen is programmed into system software and by touching the at the bottom right corner of touch screen access to system definitions are shown.

USB processor shown in is commercially available as part PIC1F2455 I SO. Firmware is written specifically for this application as described below. Data is transferred from USB processor to output microprocessor via expansion module bus connector see . The output from USB processor and 24V output station loop switch is also connectorized allowing expansion module to be pluggable. This allows the user to replace expansion modules without rewiring.

Expansion module output terminals provide the path for the input of the low voltage AC signal to expansion module and the output of eight 8 24V output station loop switches only one 1 shown contained on each expansion module . Each switch has both a source and a return path. Output terminals are industry standard wiring terminals and are part of main circuit board to allow replacement of expansion modules without making wiring changes. Eight 8 output terminals provide electrical connections for up to forty 40 irrigation stations .

Presence of an expansion module on main circuit board is detected by USB processor thus customizing central processor firmware to properly configure irrigation control system . This technique is commonly referred to as Plug and Play . All activity of expansion module is controlled via output microprocessor under the direction of the installed firmware.

Expansion module output microprocessor is a PIC16F882 IS available from a number of sources. Output microprocessor receives data from central processor via USB processor decodes the address and operational data and directs the proper output station loop switch to assume either an On or Off condition in one 1 second intervals. Output microprocessor also receives data from open loop detector circuitry and monitor circuitry located on expansion module See and reports this data to central processor in a similar manner.

Zero crossing detector circuitry T T only two 2 shown see routes signals to either turn On or Off a particular output station loop switch . The function of zero crossing detector circuitry is to time the signal to output station loop switch with the low voltage AC signal such that the actual switching occurs only when the AC voltage is at zero volts thus the name zero crossing detector . The signal to either turn On or Off an output station loop switch is routed via zero crossing detector circuitry to output station loop switch . Zero crossing detector circuitry is included to enhance reliability as irrigation station output loops can be long. Water control solenoid valve generates a high probability of high reflective voltages at the time of switching. By incorporating zero crossing switch MOC3033SM switch is only switched when the 24VAC is crossing zero 0 volts. This is the precise time when the alternating voltage changes from positive to negative or vice versa and minimizes the voltage and current reflections generated when switching electrically inductive loads.

System status monitor circuitry only one shown allow output microprocessor to read digital voltage during different stages of operation of output station loop switches . Expansion module firmware directs the timing of the signal inputs to determine if system is operating properly. Conditions that can be detected are blown fuses and switch failure.

Lightening over volt protection circuitry and output wires of controller see are exposed to lightning. Each output port as seen in is protected by instrument grade fast acting electrical fuse rated at 2.5 amperes. In addition each output port is protected from extreme conditions such as lightning strikes. Gas discharge tubes part SL1003 U U U U one shown in prevent instantaneous voltages from rising beyond a predetermined value and limit the instantaneous voltage at output terminals to two hundred and thirty 230 volts. Gas discharge tubes offer high voltage protection even in the absence of high currents. Lightening over volt protection circuitry and Metal Oxide Varistors MOV P7204 see have the ability to shunt high instantaneous currents and can route up to two thousand 2000 amperes to electrical ground. A blown output fuse is a system status condition that will be reported to the user status screen.

Output station loop switches seen in control the flow of low voltage AC to output terminals . They are either On or Off as directed by output microprocessor .

Output station loop switch as seen in switches AC voltage as the output voltage to 24VAC to operate the station water control solenoid valves . Preferred output station loop switch is a Triac S6006D . The rated switching current is thirty 30 times the average current required to switch an industry standard solenoid for improved reliability. Also the rated voltage is seventeen 17 times the actual switched voltage. This in conjunction with other protection devices provide a high degree of immunity for irrigation control system to lightning. During the switching time once per second output station loop switch is monitored and any malfunction is reported to central processor to be displayed to the user not shown on touch screen monitor .

Open loop detector circuitry detects malfunctions and reports to central processor . An open fuse or a malfunctioning switch is detected on one 1 second intervals and reported to central processor . The user has the ability to view a Status Screen that is a composite reporting of all monitored functions of individual irrigation stations as seen in .

Shown in USB Port accepts standard thumb drive . Software Linux for preferred irrigation control system and proprietary application software reside on thumb drive . This allows updating of proprietary application software for the user. Changing thumb drive to an updated version of software is therefor easily accomplished as all programs data are stored on thumb drive .

USB Port is the bidirectional data transfer port of all operational data and allows transfer of operation data to main circuit board and for receiving data pertaining to the operational status of irrigation control system . Application data from central processor to main circuit board includes the address of the output station loop switch and its operation status On or Off . Data is sent from central processor and transferred via USB port to main circuit board and consequently to expansion module output microprocessor on one 1 second intervals. The status of control system is poled at one 1 second intervals. Also at one 1 second intervals central processor poles expansion module via main circuit board as to irrigation control system status. The external input data whether from touch screen monitor external sensors not shown or remote control is sent to central processor via USB port .

USB Port provides backup and restore capabilities to irrigation control system . After the user has implemented applications data can be stored in a backup thumb drive not seen for disaster recover occasions and connected to USB port . Also USB port can be used to implement a transfer of application data to a new system software thumb drive not seen using the familiar backup and restore routines common to the industry. As further seen in USB port accepts data from touch screen monitor . This is user data input to implement the desired program features.

Input terminals and associated circuitry R R R R R C and C are typical input ports which accept digital data from external sensors not shown and remote control . Input terminals serve two 2 main functions to condition the data signal and to protect the circuitry from external voltages typically produced by lightning. External sensor input signals are routed onto main circuit board via input terminals . These signals are conditioned via electronic components associated with input terminals . After conditioning the signals are routed to USB processor which routes these data signals to central processor via USB Port . Remote data signals are routed onto main circuit board via remote control input terminal . After conditioning and electrical isolation via opto isolator not shown the conditioned signals are routed to USB processor . USB processor then routes these signals to central processor via USB Port .

Remote control input terminal is configured to accept remote data signals from remote control whereby remote data signals are conditioned and routed to USB processor and thus to central processor . Remote data signals enter main circuit board via remote control input terminal and is electrically isolated from all other internal circuitry via opto isolator not shown . The associated components not shown condition and protect circuitry not shown in a similar fashion as those associated with input terminals . The transmitted data directs that certain irrigation stations be operated for a specified time.

DC power supply as seen in converts incoming 110VAC to the necessary DC voltages needed to operate central processor and monitor . DC power supply also provides the 110VAC necessary to operate the low voltage AC power supplied from heavy duty transformer seen in . Transformer is protected from overload by a fused input source from AC power source and is capable of providing ten 10 amperes of current. This is 125 of the current needed to operate forty 40 water control solenoid valves rated at 200 ma each.

When control system is needed to be enlarged each expansion module will add eight 8 additional irrigation stations . From an initial control system of eight 8 stations to a control system of forty 40 stations .

For additional system enlargement up to two hundred thirty two 232 irrigation stations can be controlled by using alternate expansion module as seen in alternate irrigation control system shown in . Alternate irrigation control system routes two 2 output wires to irrigation stations . As seen in in the alternate form expansion module consists of an output microprocessor RF code generator 24VAC mixer output drivers and lightening over volt protection circuitry . Output microprocessor encodes the address of each station in a burst of high frequency voltage that is superimposed on the 24VAC that provides the power to operate water control solenoid valve . At each water control solenoid valve is decoder that is programmed with a specific electrical address. In addition to the address is the operation command On Off thus RF code generator is a 24VAC bus with superimposed high frequency data. Thus alternate two 2 wire expansion module is compatible with main circuit board . Five 5 two 2 wire system outputs are each capable of controlling up to forty 40 irrigation stations . Each alternate expansion module could control up to two hundred 200 irrigation stations . Four 4 more expansion modules may be installed for a total of two hundred thirty two 232 stations.

Forty eight 48 application programs all stored in thumb drive are completely independent. All forty eight 48 programs are active 100 of the time and programming is easy via touch screen . Any program can control any of irrigation stations which can be controlled by any number of the forty eight 48 programs. Special programs are easily implemented through USB ports and which allow input and special programs with the operation of a detector or switch not seen . Programmed actions both on and off can be as brief as one 1 second and as long as twenty four 24 hours for soaking or misting applications for each irrigation station . Misting on and off times are independently set and either can be a minimum of one 1 second. The interval between misting is also independently set to a desired time. Flexibility such as this assures healthy plants with a minimum risk of fungus and disease. The cycle to repeat 1 to 9 and mist for hours using only one start time is set and correct water usage maximizes benefit while reducing cost. In the alternate two wire configuration system each of the six 6 systems will be directed by forty eight 48 programs as described above. Each of the forty 40 irrigation stations constitute a water system and each water system has full capabilities as described herein.

Each of the six 6 independent irrigation start times per program available for each irrigation station are multiplied in effectiveness by the ability to repeat at a user defined interval. One start time with a repeat interval of ten 10 minutes is equivalent to one hundred and forty four 144 start times per day. Each start time is completely independent of the other five 5 start times. Start times and run times are not related. Any number of irrigation stations can be started at the same time each with a different run time. Scheduling of each station from one 1 day to thirty one 31 days is available by touching the days on touch screen as needed.

Accessing the schedule of any individual irrigation station is accomplished from the status screen for monitor by pressing the SCHEDULE button on touch screen for any station and it will display a twenty four 24 hour schedule graph for the selected station . The presented graph is for today but a touch of the next day button advances the screen in twenty four 24 hour increments. Reverse scrolling is possible by pressing the previous day button. Knowing the detail schedules means efficiency in work crew assignments. Irrigation soak control using touch screen allows each start time to be programmed independently with a given interval. The user defines a precise amount of water needed as well as the precise soak time. Multiple programs for each station of the forty eight 48 independent programs can address any of stations available. Each station can be assigned a different run time. This flexibility provides precisely the correct amount of water to various plants and conditions.

Controller contains a high power output source that is capable of providing sufficient power to operate forty 40 irrigation stations at once. All stations can be programmed to supply the precise amount of water needed and at the most beneficial time.

As all stations are independently controlled the designation of a pump control sometimes called master valve can be chosen. An irrigation station chosen for the designation of pump control will be denoted with a P on the system status display screen on monitor as a reminder that this particular irrigation station has a special application. Using touch screen any irrigation station can be designated as the pump station .

Programs can be named to identify functions or locations. Names to match the location i.e. Greenhouse 1 or Front Lawn or the name can reflect the function e.g. Misting assuring the user of the functionality of each program and its intended purpose. This is accomplished through touch screen as are renaming of programs.

Also naming of individual irrigation stations is an easy option. Individual stations can be named to remove any user doubt as to the location or purpose of the particular station . This list is available from any screen on monitor that has a time indicator in the lower right of the screen. By pressing touch screen a full listing of station names is available and once reviewed pressing the list will return the user to the previous screen.

Weather compensation can be applied to any program independently with the adjustment user defined in percentage of programmed value. Compensation can vary from 10 to 99 . The precise amount of water that the situation dictates is the economical solution. There is no need to reset the compensation. Upon initial setting the user can define a stop date . At the end of the prescribed time controller returns to the original programmed rates.

Operation of stations outside of programmed schedules is also available as every station is independently controlled. Each station can be operated indefinitely or for a prescribed length of time. Using touch screen a designated station can be turned on or off with the touch of a finger.

System status is easily determined by accessing the status screen on monitor . Each station is represented on touch screen with a touch button. All active irrigation stations are highlighted. If a fault has been detected on a particular station it is displayed in red. Specific status of each station will be displayed on the left of touch screen as each station button is pressed. The controlling program s of each station as well as instantaneous information detailing the present state on or off of designated station is a part of this. Monitor circuitry within expansion modules will report either of two 2 fault conditions defective fuses plug in replacement and non functional loops. This allows for quick location and correction of faults.

Optional software not shown is installed on an office computer to allow complete programming from the comfort of the office. The user can program the entire system or make changes to match new requirements by plugging a thumb drive not shown into a convenient USB connection on the office computer to save. Next the programmed thumb drive not shown is transported to controller and installed into backup restore USB port located on main circuit board and by pushing central processor reset button central processor will download the new program into RAM memory and the entire program will begin operation within seconds.

Module circuitry as well as auxiliary circuit board and main circuit board within controller are protected from external surges. Lightening over volt protection circuitry and Metal Oxide Varistors MOV s protect the circuitry from high surges of current. Gas discharge tubes GDT s protect circuits such as seen in from external induced high voltage spikes. Expansion modules are also protected by fast acting instrument fuses and when faults occur the fuses not shown protect the remaining circuitry within controller .

In addition to the self diagnostics of faults described above controller can exercise a self test which will exercise each irrigation station . The amount of time each station is active can be selected by the user default is one 1 second . This sequence of testing can be stopped and started at any time in the test. The start button on touch screen becomes the stop button during operation facilitating an easy stop start manual sequence.

The programming flexibility and capacity of controller make it a natural for many applications. Office lights signage security systems green house ventilation area lights heaters circulation pumps are but a few of the electrical applications that can be controlled with ease by system .

The preferred method of irrigation utilizing irrigation control system includes the steps of first mounting and connecting system to a 110VAC power source. Irrigation control system is activated by turning power switch found on the right side of controller housing to ON . After approximately one 1 minute central processor loads the operating system and application programs from thumb drive and touch screen monitor should appear for example as seen in showing an example screen entitled System Screen A .

The programming choices as seen by System Screen A are identified on touch screen monitor . Functional hints are located beside each option button.

Pressing the STATUS button on System Screen A provides a screen shown in listing all system irrigation stations numbered for example 1 40. Pressing a particular irrigation station button lists the status of that station such as seen in by Status Screen B shown if irrigation station designated as Station is selected 

 Status Screen B displays all irrigation stations and their status. Status Screen B as shown in is a typical screen for a forty 40 station irrigation system.

Color indicators not shown are provided along the bottom of Status Screen B in to indicate the program status and if an individual station has a detected fault. The program status may be identified as either running no program programmed or fault . For example station may be running and the number 19 would be seen in the color blue on Status Screen B identifying this station as running station may not have a program and the number 6 would be seen in the color green identifying this station as having no program station may be programmed whereby the number 28 would be seen in the color black identifying this station as programmed and if a station button is seen in the color red that station has a fault . By pressing the specific station number such as a more detailed status of selected station is revealed station shown . Shown in the left column of Status Screen B is the following information 

D. Fault information a simulated blown fuse is shown with the fuse number and its location within the system reported shown as Replace FUSE leftmost fuse .

 Station Schedule Screen C shows a twenty four 24 hour graphical display of the full schedule of a selected irrigation station . Individual stations can be addressed by multiple programs and start times. The graph as shown in has five 5 minute increments but will report operations as short as one 1 second. The day of the reported operations is reported at the bottom of the graph above the buttons RETURN and NEXT DAY . Pressing the NEXT DAY button will graph the schedule for the following day. Pressing the NEXT DAY button also activates a PREV DAY button. Thus the user can move forwards or backwards to look at all schedules for the particular irrigation station selected. The number located at the bottom right 00 49 ON indicates the accumulated run time of this station for this particular day. RETURN directs the system to the previous screen.

Upon initial installation the initial system parameter options for irrigation control system must be set in order for system to operate correctly. Pressing the OPTIONS button on System Screen A as seen in will activate Input Screen D as shown in .

 Input Screen D allows configuration of input terminals and remote control input terminal . By pressing the down arrow button on Input Screen D System Screen Second Option E as seen in appears.

 System Screen second option E includes buttons for Set Clock Set Date Start of Day End of Day Pump and Clear All as well as return up and down arrows and a help button . Pressing the Set Clock button activates Clock Set Screen F as seen in .

Pressing the appropriate hour minutes AM or PM buttons allows the correct time to be set for the clock of irrigation control system . The time set will be displayed on the bottom right of the screen. Power interruptions should not reset the clock. When the correct time is displayed pressing the SET button on Clock Set Screen F sets the clock and then System Screen second option E returns whereby the SET DATE button can be pressed to activate Set Date Screen G shown in .

Arrows on each side of the calendar month allow the correct month to be chosen whereby the correct day can be selected. Once the correct day and month have been selected by pressing the SAVE button on Set Date Screen G the System Screen second option E returns whereby the START OF DAY button can be pressed.

The START OF DAY button provides time input allowing the user the option of starting the day at some time other than 12 00 AM SYSTEM DEFAULT . This allows special need irrigation cycles to start and finish within the same defined day. Pressing the START OF DAY button will activate the Set Start of Day Screen H shown in .

The desired start time can be entered by pressing one of the time numbered buttons. For example pressing Noon and then pressing SAVE stores the time and will return the user to System Screen second option E for further options.

Pressing the END OF DAY button on System Screen second option E will display a screen not shown similar to the Set Start of Day Screen H shown in which will allow the user to select an end of day time to correspond with the start of day time set as previously discussed.

Pressing the PUMP button on System Screen second option E activates Set Pump Screen I as shown in which allows the user to designate any irrigation station as a pump station . The pump station has a special function allowing the user to link any of irrigation stations to the designated pump station . Operation of any of the linked stations will operate the designated pump station .

By pressing the number of the station desired to be the pump station the selected station number will be changed to the letter P and shown in the color red not shown . As seen in Set Pump Screen I in irrigation station designated as is the designated pump station . Pressing the SET PUMP button will save the selection and activate Pump Link Screen J seen in .

Irrigation stations designated to be linked to the selected pump station can be selected by touching the desired station button. Any or all irrigation stations can be so designated. Pump Link Screen J indicates irrigation stations designated and shown raised are linked to the designated pump station . When any program operates either of the stations designated and the pump station will be operated. Once selection is complete press the SAVE button which will return the user to System Screen second option E for further options.

The selection CLEAR ALL on System Screen second option E as seen in should be used with caution as this will clear all programs in irrigation control system . If the user accidently activates the CLEAR ALL button system requests Are you sure allowing the user to reply Yes or No . By selecting CLEAR ALL upon initialization of new irrigation control system clears any test programs that may remain in system for factory testing. Upon user selection system returns to System Screen second option E whereby the user can select RETURN and go back to Input Screen D shown in . Here the user can designate the functionality and program the four 4 inputs and by pressing the screen to the right of either of the INPUT buttons will activate Keyboard Screen K seen in .

Pressing the appropriate keys on Keyboard Screen K will allow the user to name each program. In the example shown by Input Screen D in INPUT is named FROST and INPUT is named RAIN .

Pressing any one of the four 4 INPUT buttons on Input Screen D activates Input Programming Screen L shown in which allows the user to define the parameters of the selected input.

Controller as shown in of irrigation control system is designed to operate with a number of commercially available sensors. Certain sensors provide a contact closure upon activation.

As seen in Input Programming Screen L includes buttons for BEGIN END PROGRAM SUSPEND MANUAL and SAVE for user selection as well as a RETURN button and the help button. By pressing the BEGIN button the activation mode will alternate between CONTACT CLOSED CONTACT OPEN and NO ACTION . The user can select NO ACTION to disable the input.

The END button on Input Programming Screen L automatically alternates between the opposite of the start button which allows system to be configured to match the selected sensors.

The PROGRAM button on Input Programming Screen L provides for selection of a program or multiple programs which have been designed to operate when the sensor is activated. Pressing the PROGRAM button activates a screen not shown that has a button corresponding to each program in system . Pressing the desired program will designate the selected program to be activated IF the sensor is activated. After a program is designated when the user goes to that program location the designation of the program will be INPUT X PROGRAM and this program will only have one start time start time is when activated .

The SUSPEND button on Input Programming Screen L provides the user with the capability to suspend active programs while the sensor is activated. Selecting a program s to be suspended is the same procedure as selecting a program s to be activated see above paragraph .

The MANUAL button on Input Programming Screen L allows the user to initiate the actions specified by the input programming.

The user after selection and desired data input should press the SAVE button on Input Programming Screen L . When the sensor returns to normal conditions irrigation control system will resume operation of all programs.

For example CASE a Frost Sensor contact closed is connected to input . The program numbered thirty five 35 has been implemented to provide the desired irrigation during a frost situation. All other programs have been selected to be suspended during the first frost situation. When the frost sensor or detector is activated ALL designated programs will be suspended and the SELECTED program will be implemented. When the sensor determines that frost is present the switch is operated and system responds by implementing the designated program s . An alternate method would be to go directly to System Screen A as shown in and select the MANUAL feature.

For remote operation pressing the REMOTE button on Input Screen D activates the Remote Setup Screen M shown in .

The REMOTE OFF button on Remote Setup Screen M allows the user to disable remote control by setting the remote to OFF. This is a toggle button between on and off .

The MINUTES button on Remote Setup Screen M allows the user to activate remote control in seconds rather than the system default of minutes. The remote mode is indicated to the right of the button.

On the right of the Remote Setup Screen M is the information section illustrating Station XX which reports if a station is activated via the remote. Just below this is the time information. The reported time is the remaining time of the remote activation.

By returning to Input Screen D the last selection on this screen is STATION LIST . This unique feature allows the user to name each irrigation station within system . Pressing the STATION LIST button activates a screen not shown with a numerical field of buttons corresponding to each station . Pressing the NUMBER button of any station will activate the familiar Keyboard Screen K whereby the user can individually name each station . Pressing DONE will save the individual station names.

The retrieval of individual station names is unique as the list can be retrieved from any screen in the system that has a TIME TAG . The TIME TAG is the notation of time found in the bottom right of most screens as seen for example on Input Screen D in . Pressing the TIME TAG will activate a station list screen not shown displaying all station names thus allowing the user access to the list of station names from anywhere in system this information is needed. Pressing the station list screen will return the user to the particular screen from which the station list screen was activated. This feature precludes the need to scroll to the list and back to the particular screen where the information is needed.

The OPTION screen not shown by pressing OPTIONS as seen on System Screen A in then the down arrow twice has three buttons BACKUP RESTORE and VERSION . The BACKUP button allows the user to make a backup record of system programs which can be done at any time. Placing a backup thumb drive into USB port . Opening controller housing top reveals double USB ports . With a system cable in the bottom slot of USB port and a backup thumb drive inserted into the top slot of USB port the user is ready to make a backup copy for the system programs simply by pressing the BACKUP button.

To restore the system using a backup copy insert the backup thumb drive into USB port shown in and press the RESTORE button. The system programs will be restored to the backup position. The backup thumb drive should not be stored in system as this may cause system to malfunction and backup data may be lost.

Pressing the VERSION button will report the version of the system software. Pressing the RETURN button twice will return system back to System Screen A shown in . From here the user can begin defining the irrigation programs.

Control programming selections are implemented by pressing the PROGRAMS button on System Screen A which activates Program Selection Screen N shown in .

As earlier described forty eight 48 independent programs are available pressing the down arrow scrolls through the programs in irrigation control system . By pressing to the right of the PROGRAM X button Keyboard Screen K is activated. Using standard input procedures the program can be named. This can relate to the location application or any name the user desires. Pressing the PROGRAM X button activates Program Definition Screen O seen in .

 Program Definition Screen O includes the buttons START TIMES START DAY SCHEDULE SCALE SUSPEND CLEAR as well as RETURN help and the TIME TAG . Pressing the START TIMES button activates Start Time Screen P shown in revealing each of the six 6 start times within each program.

The attributes of each start time as seen in by Start Time Screen P are recorded for a quick reference. Pressing any of the START TIME buttons will activate Independent Start Time Screen Q as shown in . This screen allows definition of individual start times and includes buttons for START TIME INTERVAL END TIME RUN TIMES SAVE and CLEAR as well as RETURN help and the TIME TAG .

Pressing the START TIME button seen in Independent Start Time Screen O activates Time Input Screen R shown in .

Default times are AM. The user proceeds by entering the desired START TIME by sequentially pressing the appropriate buttons. If desired times are PM press the PM button. For example 3 15 PM is entered in a sequence of 3 1 5 PM. Pressing DONE will save the entry and return the user to Independent Start Time Screen Q shown in . Once set the selected start time will display to the right of the START TIME button.

The INTERVAL button in Independent Start Time Screen O defines the time from the initiation of one cycle to the initiation of the next cycle in a sequence. Pressing the INTERVAL button activates Interval Input Screen S as shown in .

The INTERVAL can be defined in minutes seconds or hour minutes. By touching the m s button on Interval Input Screen S the input time is designated in minutes seconds. Pressing DONE saves the entry and returns the user to the previous screen. If no INTERVAL is specified system will calculate the minimum interval as a default value.

A specified END TIME as selected from Independent Start Time Screen O is necessary if the operation is a repetitive process defined below . If the process is defined as a specific number of cycles the program will end when the last cycle is completed thus no END TIME is required. If no END TIME is specified in a repetitive operation the operation will continue until END OF DAY .

Any station can be selected to be controlled by multiple programs and multiple start times. Each station is selected by pressing the corresponding button. If a button is selected in error pressing the button again will deselect it. All stations can be assigned a common run time or each station can be assigned an independent run time. By pressing the desired station buttons and then pressing the SET TIME button as seen on Run Time Screen T in . Time Input Screen R shown in will again appear and the run time can be entered including the selection of hours minutes and minutes seconds. Pressing the DONE button saves the user entry and returns system to Run Time Screen T . A different station or group of stations can share a common start time but with different run times. By repeating the procedure above of selecting the desired station and pressing RUN TIMES . Thus it is possible for each station to start at the same time yet have an independent run time.

The SELECT ALL button on Run Time Screen T as shown in is a quick entry button that selects all stations whereas CLEAR ALL is a quick entry button that deselects all stations.

The SEQUENCE button allows stations to be either operated in sequence or simultaneously. In the example shown in Run Time Screen T in if stations thru are operated in sequence as each station completes the designated time the next station will be activated. If the simultaneous option is chosen all eight 8 stations will operate at the same time. System default operates stations in SEQUENTIAL MODE.

The number of cycles can be any number up to nine however caution must be used such that the numbers of cycles can be performed in the given time as defined in the START TIME and END TIME options of Independent Start Time Screen O . However if a given cycle interval is to be repeated until the defined STOP TIME just press the REPEAT button on 1 Cycle Screen U . The defined cycle will be repeated beginning with the START TIME and ending at the specified END TIME . System default is 1 CYCLE. When entry is completed pressing DONE saves the input and returns system to Run Time Screen T . The COPY TO button allows the data from this screen to be copied to another start time.

To save data press RETURN on Run Time Screen T which returns the user to the previous screen Independent Start Time Screen O and then press SAVE and answer the questions YES .

Pressing the RETURN button twice returns the user back to Start Time Screen P discussed above and as each start time is programmed the label Start Start etc. will appear in the color red. Immediately to the right of the START button is the programmed START TIME 5 00 AM shown in on Start Time Screen P . To the right of the programmed time is the SETTINGS button. Pressing the SETTINGS button provides a record of the programmed attributes of this specific start time and activates the Settings Report Screen V shown in .

Pressing the START DAY button activates the calendar screen Set Date Screen G shown in . Press the date corresponding to today s date and the program is activated immediately. However activation can be delayed to a future date by selecting the date activation as desired. This allows the user to program controller for future applications. When the desired date occurs the program will be activated. Pressing SAVE will return the user to the previous screen.

 Schedule Screen W allows the user to designate the schedule of a particular program. A schedule can be any number of days up to thirty two 32 . As this schedule is complete it is repeated until the program is deactivated. Thus schedules are initiated by pressing the NUMBER corresponding to the number of days in the schedule pressing 7 will initiate a weekly schedule . As the schedule is selected the remaining buttons will be erased.

If the program is to run everyday press the TODAY button on Schedule Screen W . The remaining days will be erased. Press SAVE. This will implement the program and its specified attributes daily.

If the program is to run every other day press 2 and select the active day. A weekly schedule is selected by pressing 7 . After the number of days in the schedule is selected the active days are selected by pressing the number corresponding to the days that are to be active i.e. Monday Wednesday and Friday. Thus the user can activate the program only on the desired days within the schedule. By pressing SAVE the user is returned to the previous screen. Run times of a program can be scaled and by pressing the SCALE button a numerical input screen is activated as shown by Scaling Screen X in .

Entering 50 from Scaling Screen X in will reduce all watering times within the program to 50 . The scale factor can be any number between ten 10 and ninety nine 99 . Note any programmed times less than one 1 minute will not be scaled. Press DONE to enter the desired scale factor into system . RETURN will return the user to the previous screen.

The SUSPEND function of Program Definition Screen O allows suspension of the operation of the program. Thus programs can be suspended individually. Pressing the SUSPEND button will activate Suspend Program Screen Y shown in .

Pressing the SUSPEND DATE button of Suspend Program Screen Y will activate a calendar screen. Choose the date to suspend the program. This can be today s date or any date in the future. Pressing the RESUME DATE button of Suspend Program Screen Y will also activate a calendar screen. The user can then choose a date for controller to resume the program.

If the resume date is not known pressing the INDEFINITELY button of Suspend Program Screen Y will suspend the program until the suspension is canceled manually. Pressing the CANCEL button will cancel all previous commands. This can be done at any time in the future it is desired to restore the program to active status. It is necessary to press SAVE to activate all commands as no action will be taken until SAVE is pressed.

Suspension of irrigation station s is initiated from System Screen A by pressing the STATIONS button which activates Suspend Screen Z shown in .

 Suspend Screen Z shows that all irrigation stations are active. As a station s is chosen to suspend the button will go flat . Then press the SET button and the selected station s will be immediately suspended. At this point no programs can activate the suspended irrigation station s .

Station s that have been suspended can be restored to active status either on a selected day at a specific time or immediately. If immediate restoration is desired press the number of the station to be restored and then press the SET button. The option to restore stations to active services on a specific date is achieved by pressing the RESTORE DATE button which activates Set Date Screen G as seen in . Choose a date for the station to be restored to active status. Pressing the RESTORE TIME button activates Time Input Screen R as seen in allowing the user to specify a specific time on the specified date the station will be restored to active status.

If at any time it is desired that controller suspend all operations the SUSPEND ALL button on Suspend Screen Z provides the ability to do this. Press the SUSPEND ALL button and the SET button to implement complete system shutdown.

The RESTORE ALL button on Suspend Screen Z restores all suspended stations to active status. Press RESTORE ALL then SET to restore all previously programmed activity.

After making the desired selection to either suspend or restore pressing the SET button on Suspend Screen Z implements the desired actions immediately.

Manual operation of individual stations or groups of stations can be programmed by pressing the MANUAL button on System Screen A shown in .

Select any station s to operate manually by pressing the corresponding station number on Manual Operations Screen AAA . By pressing the SET TIME button Time Input Screen R will appear whereby the user can input the desired operation time and press DONE . System default times are h m. System default is for the selected stations to operate in sequence however by pressing the SEQUENCE button this will change to simultaneous operation. By pressing the CYCLES button and inputting the number of desired cycles the number of operation cycles is set. System default is one 1 cycle. If more than one 1 cycle is programmed the INTERVAL must be specified otherwise the system default is the minimum interval.

Each station s as shown schematically in can have independent attributes i.e. different runtimes sequence cycles and intervals.

Pressing the START button on Manual Operations Screen AAA initiates the programmed actions. The START button will then become the STOP button. If at any time it is desired to terminate the manual operation the STOP button is pressed. All manual operations will cease and normal operations will resume.

The illustrations and examples provided herein are for explanatory purposes and are not intended to limit the scope of the appended claims as obvious variations thereon will become apparent to those skilled in the art.

