---

title: Nano-particle field extraction thruster
abstract: A nano-particle field extraction system comprising a grid having a plurality of electrodes each defining an electrical field, wherein the grid has a plurality of vias extending therethrough. The system further comprises a reservoir having a generally dry mixture disposed therein, a plurality of particles suspended in the generally dry mixture, a biasing member applying a biasing force to the generally dry mixture in the reservoir, and a sieve electrode system in electrical communication with the grid. The sieve electrode system has a plurality of through-holes extending from the reservoir to the grid, such that the sieve electrode system cooperates with the biasing member to extract at least one particle from the generally dry mixture and into the grid whereby the electrical fields charge and accelerate the particle in the vias.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08453427&OS=08453427&RS=08453427
owner: The Regents of The University of Michigan
number: 08453427
owner_city: Ann Arbor
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090721
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 082 061 filed on Jul. 22 2008. The entire disclosure of the above application is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with government support under Grant Nos. FA9550 07 C 0144 and FA9550 09 C 0079 awarded by Air Force Office of Scientific Research. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present disclosure relates to thruster mechanisms and more particularly relates to electrostatic thrusters and accelerators using nano and micro sized particles with micro and nano electromechanical systems MEMS NEMS fabrication technology.

This section provides background information related to the present disclosure which is not necessarily prior art. This section also provides a general summary of the disclosure and is not a comprehensive disclosure of its full scope or all of its features.

The Nano particle Field Extraction Thruster nanoFET concept is an approach for nano particle acceleration to high speeds. According to the present teachings nano particles can be delivered without being suspended in a liquid. Particles can be completely dry lightly lubricated or treated to minimize particle cohesion. Sieve like structures and mechanical vibration are used to overcome particle cohesion and adhesion effects to move particles from storage to the nanoFET charging and extraction grid. In addition to aerospace propulsion applications nanoFET acceleration of nano particles can be utilized in materials processing nanoprinting and biomedical applications to name a few.

Sieve like structures can be placed between the extraction and acceleration grids in the nanoFET and its particle reservoir with characteristics dimensions close to that of the nano particles and larger. Multiple sieve grids can be used. The smallest structures can be based on MEMS NEMS technology. The mechanical vibrations are accomplished via a combination of one or more external vibrating sources and integrated sources that are part of the MEMS NEMS structures.

Using high speed nano particles it is possible to modify material surface properties for improved performance in materials processing. By this method sputtering deposition and implantation are feasible. An important subcategory of this includes enabling improved semiconductor performance through use of nano particles in fabrication.

Nanometer and micron scale printing on a wide variety of materials e.g. paper plastics semiconductors and other targets are possible for applications such as high security printing high resolution marking and direct circuit fabrication including for semiconductor devices. Using the nanoFET architecture of the present teachings it is possible to consider precise nanometer placement of particles and control of the energy of deposition.

Furthermore biomedical applications will benefit from the ability to energetically inject nano particles in vivo. This allows the opportunity for treatments through the skin and drug placement at a cellular level. It will be a tool for both treatment and research.

Further areas of applicability will become apparent from the description provided herein. The description and specific examples in this summary are intended for purposes of illustration only and are not intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure.

Corresponding reference numerals indicate corresponding parts throughout the several views of the drawings.

Example embodiments will now be described more fully with reference to the accompanying drawings. Example embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and will fully convey the scope to those who are skilled in the art. Numerous specific details are set forth such as examples of specific components devices and methods to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the present disclosure. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that specific details need not be employed that example embodiments may be embodied in many different forms and that neither should be construed to limit the scope of the disclosure.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular example embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting. As used herein the singular forms a an and the may be intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. The terms comprises comprising including and having are inclusive and therefore specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof. The method steps processes and operations described herein are not to be construed as necessarily requiring their performance in the particular order discussed or illustrated unless specifically identified as an order of performance. It is also to be understood that additional or alternative steps may be employed.

When an element or layer is referred to as being on engaged to connected to or coupled to another element or layer it may be directly on engaged connected or coupled to the other element or layer or intervening elements or layers may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly on directly engaged to directly connected to or directly coupled to another element or layer there may be no intervening elements or layers present. Other words used to describe the relationship between elements should be interpreted in a like fashion e.g. between versus directly between adjacent versus directly adjacent etc. . As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

Although the terms first second third etc. may be used herein to describe various elements components regions layers and or sections these elements components regions layers and or sections should not be limited by these terms. These terms may be only used to distinguish one element component region layer or section from another region layer or section. Terms such as first second and other numerical terms when used herein do not imply a sequence or order unless clearly indicated by the context. Thus a first element component region layer or section discussed below could be termed a second element component region layer or section without departing from the teachings of the example embodiments.

The use of charged and accelerated micro or nano particles was first presented by the inventors of the present application in U.S. Pat. No. 7 516 610 issued on Apr. 14 2009 the teachings of which are hereby incorporated by reference. A principal focus of the 610 patent was the extraction of nano particles suspended in insulating and conducting liquids.

With reference to the present teachings provide a method and apparatus for the transporting charging and extracting of micro or nano particles stored primarily dry or with little or no liquid to be referred to as the liquidless nanoFET system . Liquidless nanoFET system provides a system for the delivery charging and acceleration of nano particles generally using a method of transporting dry particles through one or more ultra fine conducting sieve electrode system that serves as a source electrode to separate the clumped nano particle powder into individually isolated particles prior to charging and acceleration. It should be understood that a plurality of sieve electrode systems can be used in series if desired.

In some embodiments liquidless nanoFET system consists of a particle storage reservoir directly against sieve electrode system with a biasing member such as a spring or control piston that supplies pressure to help urge particles through sieve electrode system . It should be understood however that biasing member can be replaced with other urging devices and in some cases gravitational forces can be used in place of a dedicated biasing member.

In some embodiments liquidless nanoFET system can comprise a vibrational source . Vibrational source can be a vibrating member or in some cases can be other mechanical or acoustical devices capable of imparting a mechanical or other force to disrupt the bond between adjacent particles surfaces or other matter.

Sieve electrode system comprises at least one but preferably a plurality of through hole openings or orifices extending from a first side of sieve electrode system to a second side thereof. The first side is adjacent particle storage reservoir and receives particle therefrom. The second side is in communication with a volume discussed below. In some embodiments the through hole openings of sieve electrode system are sized slightly larger than the size of particle so that only one particle is capable of passing through each sieve orifice at a time. This assists in breaking the clumped nano particle powder within particle storage reservoir into individually isolated particles . However it should be appreciated that in some embodiments where extraction of individual particles is not required openings can be sized such that two or more particles can pass therethrough simultaneously.

Liquidless nanoFET system further comprises a charging grid and an acceleration grid stacked above sieve electrode system and in communication with volume which can collectively be referred to as grid . It should be appreciated however that in some embodiments acceleration grid can be eliminated and in some embodiments a plurality of acceleration grids can be used. The construction and operation of charging grid and acceleration grid are similar to that described in commonly assigned U.S. Pat. No. 7 516 610. Briefly an electrical potential i.e. V V etc. can be applied between adjacent electrodes to define electric field therebetween i.e. E E etc. acting upon the associated particle. In other words electric potentials are applied across the conducting sieve electrode system and the charging grid and acceleration grid to generate the charging and accelerating electric fields used to charge and accelerate the individual particles that pass through sieve electrode system . Once a particle has charged and lifted off from sieve electrode system the applied electric field accelerates particle to high speeds through vias formed in charging grid and accelerating grid respectively.

As briefly described above in some embodiments a variety of vibrational sources can be used to overcome particle cohesion and adhesion effects to move particles from storage to the nanoFET charging grid and accelerating grid . These vibrational sources can in some embodiments move the entire nanoFET structure sieve electrode system structure only as shown and or use surface acoustic devices that launch surface waves on the charging side of sieve electrode system opposite side from particle reservoir . One specific example is an axial ring piezoelectric device to vibrate the interface between particle and sieve electrode system . When a vibration and backpressure are applied particles that come in contact with sieve electrode system pass through orifice of sieve electrode system and the vibration motion force acts in combination with the applied charging electric field to extract individual particles and launch them through the acceleration grids . As the frequency of an oscillating piezoelectric device is increased the resulting inertial force is amplified. Therefore as the vibration frequency and or amplitude is varied the mass flow rate of particles can be effected.

As an example the inertial force that facilitates particle passage through sieve electrode system and particle liftoff after charging may be provided by a piezoelectric stack as illustrated in . In this configuration which can be adjusted to include piezoelectrics providing lateral and bending modes of motion as well as piezoelectrics imbedded in the NanoFET NEMS MEMS structure a ring piezo provides axial vibrations to the particle sieve electrically biased via a conductive washer in this case though other connectors are possible mounted above it. The piezoelectric is electrically insulated from the sieve and particle reservoir by dielectric material e.g. alumina in this case . By adjusting the piezoelectric s driving waveform amplitude and frequency NanoFET s flow rate can be tuned.

The nanosieve that typically require micron to nanometer scale sized 3 dimensional structures are fabricated using micro and nano electromechanical system MEMS NEMS manufacturing technologies. Specific sieve substrate materials depend on specific applications but include semiconductor conductors as well as silicon nitride ceramics and other insulators and conductors. The second side of the sieve electrode system must be conducting as defined by the bulk material of sieve electrode system or by metal coatings such as gold or platinum or others. The nanosieve through holes can be defined using similar techniques as for charging grid and acceleration grids . Examples include semiconductor fabrication techniques to define structures using etching based on photons photolithography or electron beams E beam lithography or direct surface milling using focused ion beams FIB to define the structures. Sieve electrode system as shown in is of single thickness but a hierarchical architecture greater thickness away from the through hole regions can be used combining small openings with the macro level mechanical properties of liquidless nanoFET system . The width of the nanosieve through hole regions in sieve electrode system and the thickness of the supporting regions are optimized to maximize mechanical properties while meeting the specifications of hole size and coverage depending on particular applications. There may be as few as one or many distinct through hole regions forming a particular realization of sieve electrode system .

Previous studies working with nanometer and micron sized particles explain that particles on this size scale have a strong tendency to adhere to each other cohesion and to other objects that they contact adhesion . Therefore an understanding of the adhesion and cohesion forces and how to overcome them is extremely important to the development of the liquidless nanoFET system to assure that most particles do not clump together through cohesion or stick to sieve electrode system through adhesion. The present disclosure presents a theoretical analysis of the adhesion and cohesion forces. In addition the electric force arising from the charging electric field acting on the charged particles is investigated both theoretically and experimentally as a method to overcome the adhesion force and achieve particle removal from the source electrode . Finally a proof of concept experiment with the goal of demonstrating the feasibility of overcoming the cohesion force with liquidless nanoFET system is presented.

There are four primary forces generally credited for the adhesion and cohesion of small particles. The relative magnitude of these forces is dependent on the size of particles the materials involved and the environmental conditions. The most dominant of these forces when considering dry conducting particles smaller than several hundred microns is the van der Waals force.

The van der Waals force between atoms arises when an apolar atom momentarily has a dipole moment due to the movement of its electrons with respect to its nucleus. This momentary dipole creates an electric field which induces dipole moments in neighboring atoms. The resulting dipoles attract each other as the positive end of one atom aligns with the negative end of another.

The van der Waals force between macroscopic bodies is calculated by taking the summation of the van der Waals forces between the atoms of the different bodies. The van der Waals force density between two infinite parallel planar surfaces is calculated to be dependent on the Lifshitz van der Waals constant h and the separation between the surfaces z.

Using the van der Waals force density between two parallel planar surfaces given in Equation 1 the adhesion force between a spherical particle and an infinite planar surface Equation 2 and the cohesion force between two spherical particles Equation 3 are approximately calculated.

The simple expressions for the adhesion and cohesion van der Waals forces scale directly with particles radii and inversely with the square of the minimum separation.

A comparison of the van der Waals forces reveals that the adhesion and cohesion forces scale the same with particle size but the adhesion force is approximately twice the cohesion force when using particles of the same size. is a plot of the adhesion and cohesion forces as a function of particle diameter when using a Lifshitz van der Waals constant of 9 eV. For comparison purposes the weight of particle is included in the plot when particle is made from aluminum.

The plot in shows that as particle size decreases the adhesion and cohesion forces decrease. This is somewhat misleading because by comparison to the gravitational force both the adhesion and cohesion forces become more significant for smaller particles.

The removal of micro and nano particles from surfaces is important to many applications particularly in the MEMS and pharmaceutical industries. A few techniques currently used for particle removal are ultrasonic vibration mechanical vibration and laser irradiation. These techniques work by accelerating particles relative to the surface. This section investigates an alternative method of particle removal using high strength electric fields which lends itself nicely to the design of micro and nano particle thrusters which use high strength electric fields to charge particles when they are in contact with the source electrode. This section presents the electric force on a spherical conducting particle when in contact with an infinite planar electrode and applies this force to determine the required electric field to overcome the van der Waals adhesion force.

The model for spherical particle removal from a planar electrode is shown in and consists of two infinite parallel electrodes with a conducting spherical particle in contact with the upper surface of the bottom electrode . An electric potential bias V is applied across the electrodes to generate an electric field within the gap formed between electrodes .

The complete derivation of the electric force on the spherical particle when in contact with the source electrode is beyond the scope of these teachings. Felici calculated it when assuming particle is much smaller than the electrode gap d

Using the model for the electric force on a conducting particle in contact with the source electrode from Equation 4 and the van der Waals adhesion force from Equation 2 the threshold background electric field for particle removal can be calculated when the van der Waals force is dominant. It is important to include the gravitational force on the particle in this calculation to show where the adhesion force becomes more important than gravity.

By combining Equations 2 4 and 5 the threshold background electric field for overcoming the adhesion force is estimated when particle is much smaller than the electrode gap.

The plot of the threshold electric field clearly illustrates the two regimes. Particles much larger than the centimeter range lie within the gravitational regime and particles much smaller than millimeter range lie within the adhesion regime. Both forces affect particles between these two ranges significantly. According to the plot it may be possible to remove spherical particles with diameters as small as tens of nanometers when keeping the background electric field less than approximately 100 MV m which is below the level required for electron emission.

To experimentally investigate the van der Waals adhesion force and to overcome this force by way of an electric force the system depicted in was constructed which is very similar to the model in with the addition of the thin strip of Kapton tape over the surface of the upper electrode . It is important to note that the Kapton tape does modify the background electric field slightly which is taken into account in the results section but is only present to help capture particles that are lifted off of surface .

The goals of the experiment are to measure the threshold electric field required for removing conducting spherical particles from the electrode surface for various particles in the adhesion dominant regime investigate the effects of particle size on the adhesion force and investigate the effects of particle and electrode materials on the adhesion force.

The experiment is performed by depositing approximately 100 conducting spherical micro particles on the surface of the bottom electrode. To prevent these particles from clumping together through cohesion particles are passed through a micro sieve to separate the clumps into individual particles prior to placement onto the electrode surface. In some embodiments it is desirable to have particles separated by a distance of at least ten times their diameter to ensure that neighboring particles do not affect the electric field profile at their surfaces. Once particles are deposited the upper electrode is secured in place to provide the correct uniform electrode gap which can be defined through the use of a spacer such as 1.0 mm or 4.0 mm thick. Next the voltage across the electrodes is increased incrementally to generate the strong electric field within the gap . At each voltage increment a photograph of the particles remaining in contact with the source electrode is taken to provide visual evidence of the number of particles removed. The process is repeated until all of the particles have been removed. Finally the number of particles removed from the electrode surface at each voltage increment is counted providing an experimental measurement of the threshold electric field required for particle removal.

The particles removed from the source electrode during testing are accelerated across the electrode gap towards the upper electrode and onto the Kapton tape where they remain trapped. The Kapton tape serves to collect the removed particles so that they do not oscillate between the electrodes and disrupt the particles still adhered to the bottom electrode . The Kapton tape used for this experiment had a thickness of approximately 25 m and typically has a relative dielectric constant of approximately 2.7.

The experiment was performed with four different spherical particle sizes ranging in diameter from 53 microns to 305 microns which are all in the adhesion dominant regime. Table 1 lists the mean diameters tolerances materials densities and manufacturers of the particles.

The photos in confirm the tolerances that were reported by the manufacturers and that particles are very close to spherical. But it should be noted that the surfaces of particles are not perfectly smooth which is assumed in the model. The silver coated glass particles appear to have much rougher surfaces than the 95Sn 5Sb particles. The effects of the rough particle surfaces are addressed in more detail in a later section.

The experiment was performed with two different electrode materials gold and platinum. These materials were chosen because they do not oxidize when exposed to the atmosphere unlike most other metals. When manufacturing the electrodes the two biggest concerns were controlling the surface flatness and the surface roughness. Controlling surface flatness is important for reducing the error in the applied electric field since a warped surface can lead to varying electric field strengths at the electrode surface. The surface roughness is important because the model for the van der Waals adhesion force assumes that the surface of the electrode is perfectly smooth.

To minimize the surface roughness and control the flatness the electrodes were fabricated using plasma vapor deposition of the metals onto glass wafers. All depositions were performed using the EnerJet Evaporator at the Lurie Nanofabrication Facility LNF located at the University of Michigan. The gold electrodes were fabricated by depositing 300 nm of gold on top of a 30 nm adhesion layer of chromium and the platinum electrodes were fabricated by depositing 100 nm of platinum on top of a 10 nm adhesion layer of titanium. is a picture of one of the gold electrodes.

The electrodes are circular with 50 mm diameters and were deposited onto 100 mm glass wafers. A thin tail of metal stretches from the electrode and wraps around the wafer to provide an electrical connection on the reverse side.

An atomic force microscope AFM was used to measure the surface roughness of both the gold and platinum electrodes and both were found to have a surface roughness on the order of 20 nm. The effects of the electrode surface roughness are presented in an upcoming section.

The experiment was performed in the Ultra High Vacuum UHV chamber at the Space Electrodynamics and Tether Systems SETS laboratory at the University of Michigan which is pumped by a mechanical roughing pump and a turbo pump and has an ultimate pressure on the order of 10Torr. Each experiment was performed at a pressure less 40 nTorr to prevent arcing within the electrode gap.

Before presenting the experimental results it is important to recall that the Lifshitz van der Waals constant from Equation 2 is not well known for most material combinations. Further in the cases of reported values many authors are not in agreement. Therefore the present disclosure does not assume any values for the Lifshitz van der Waals constant when analyzing the results. Instead values for the Lifshitz van der Waals constant that best fit the experimental results are evaluated and used for comparison between the test cases. The threshold electric field for particle removal is defined as the field strength at which 50 of the particles in contact with the source electrode are removed.

The experimental data is plotted against the theoretical threshold electric fields when using the Lifshitz van der Waals constants evaluated to provide the best fit. Table 2 lists the evaluated Lifshitz van der Waals constants for the four material combinations used in and are all on the order of the expected range of 0.6 to 9 eV. As predicted by the model the threshold electric fields required for particle removal increase as particles size decreases for each material combination. But note the large variation in the threshold electric fields between the two particle materials. This variation may be a result of a difference between the actual Lifshitz van der Waals constants a difference between the materials surface roughness and or particle deformation which are discussed in the upcoming sections. Also note that changing the electrode material from gold to platinum has very little effect on particle adhesion.

The spread of the threshold electric field required for particle removal is larger than expected. shows the percentage of particles removed as a function of the applied electric field for all eight test cases. To complement Table 3 lists the median threshold electric field strength for particle removal along with the electric field strengths required to remove 15 33 67 and 85 of the particles.

Potential reasons for the spread in the electric field required for particle removal are presented herein which include the spread in particle size particle and electrode surface roughness and the surface deformation.

While the measured threshold electric fields trend as predicted by the model for each material combination the evaluated Lifshitz van der Waals constants for the two particle materials are quite different. The evaluated Lifshitz van der Waals constants may be reasonable measurements of the actual values or the difference may also be a result of uncontrolled variables in the experiment. In addition the spread of the electric fields required for the removal of all the particles is quite large which may also result from uncontrolled variables in the experiment. This section examines three variables in the experiment.

The first experimental variable to consider is the spread in particle size which may contribute to the spread in the electric fields required for particle removal. Using the tolerances on particle diameters given in Table 1 and the predicted threshold electric field from Equation 6 the expected electric field spread can be calculated. Table 4 lists the approximate expected electric field spread resulting from particle size spread along with the measured spread to remove 15 85 and 33 67 of the particles.

The calculations in Table 4 suggest that the spread in particle size can lead to a spread in the electric field but not enough to account for the entire spread in the experimental data.

The second experimental variable is possible deformation of particle and or the source electrode by compression. The model presented in Equation 2 assumes that particle is a perfect sphere and that the electrode is a perfect plane but due to defects in particle and or the electrode this is most likely not the case. The compression of either particle or the electrode leads to a contact area between the two greater than just the point contact that is assumed. An increase in the contact area leads to an increase in the adhesion force.

Approximating the change in the adhesion force due to the deformation of particle and or the electrode is not straightforward because the exact geometry after deformation has occurred is unknown and can be quite complex. To approximate the change in the adhesion force resulting from deformation all of the deformation is assumed to be at the bottom of particle . Using Equation 1 the adhesion force with a compressed particle is calculated to be a function of the contact area radius r.

Assuming that the electric force on particle does not change significantly if particle experiences a small deformation which is appropriate as long as the deformation occurs at the bottom of particle the new threshold electric field is calculated by modifying Equation 6 and assuming that particle is in the adhesion dominant regime.

The deformation of particle may lead to an error in the evaluated values of the Lifshitz van der Waals constant from the experimental results. is a plot of the percent error in the evaluated Lifshitz van der Waals constants as a function of percent deformation of particle for all four particles tested. The deformation of particle is defined as the ratio of the contact area radius to particle radius r r.

In addition to increasing the error in the evaluated values for the Lifshitz van der Waals constant particle deformation may also be a source of the spread in the electric field required to remove all particles . plots the approximate expected threshold electric field spread resulting from particle deformation for all 4 particle sizes tested. The figure assumes Lifshitz van der Waals constants of 4 and 0.2 eV for the 95Sn 5Sb and Ag particles respectively.

Comparing the theoretical spread in the electric field with the measured spread from Table 3 it is very possible that a small deformation could make significant contributions.

The final experimental variable that may potentially influence the electric field spread that is discussed in the present teachings is the surface roughness of both particle and the electrode surface. The surface roughness of the materials in contact can lead to an increase or decrease in the adhesion van der Waals force depending on their relative roughness and alignment. Due to the complexity and large number of variations of surface roughness and alignments it is not possible to provide a general relationship between the adhesion force and the materials surface roughness. Only in the case when the exact geometry of the two surfaces is known can Equation 1 be integrated to find the adhesion force.

Sketch a from illustrates two possible situations. First it is possible that particles are much smaller than the surface roughness of the source electrode. In this case particles may fit between the peaks and valleys of the electrode which increases the contact area and increases the adhesion force. Second it is possible that particles are much larger than the surface roughness and sit on the peaks of the electrode which decreases the contact area and decreases the adhesion force. Picture b illustrates a case when the surface roughness of particle and the electrode are approximately the same and are aligned so that the peaks of particle fit into the valleys of the electrode. Again this increases the contact area and the adhesion force. Picture c illustrates a case when the surface roughness of particle and the electrode are approximately the same and are unaligned so that the peaks of particle and electrode are touching. This decreases the contact area and the adhesion force.

As stated earlier there exist many other possible orientations between particle and electrode surfaces and their effects on the adhesion force can be determined by understanding how the contact area changes. Since the surface roughness affects the adhesion force by changing the contact area it is reasonable to expect that the error in the evaluated values for the Lifshitz van der Waals constants and the resulting spread of the electric field required for particle removal are on the same order of magnitude as the case of particle deformation.

Based on the analysis presented in this subsection it is possible that the evaluated values for the Lifshitz van der Waals constants deviate from the actual values due to the deformation of particles and or the electrode and the surface roughness of particles and the electrode. The large spread in the electric field required for particle removal is most likely contributed to significantly by the same two experimental variables and to a lesser extent the spread in particle size.

As discussed in a previous section the Lifshitz van der Waals constant is used to calculate the van der Waals force between two macroscopic materials and is a measure of the energy of the van der Waals interaction. For materials in atmosphere or vacuum its value generally ranges from 0.6 to 9.0 eV and is obtained using dielectric spectroscopy.

Calculating the Lifshitz van der Waals constant is beyond the scope of the present teachings but is known to be difficult due to the lack of available optical data. Table 5 lists the expected ranges of the Lifshitz van der Waals constants for a couple of the experimental material combinations using published values. For comparison the evaluated values of the Lifshitz van der Waals constants from the experimental results are included in the table.

Note that the evaluated Lifshitz van der Waals constants lay outside the range of predicted values for the given material properties but are close to the expected range for all material combinations. There is possible error in the evaluated values as discussed in the previous subsection. But according to Visser 

This section presents the feasibility of overcoming the cohesion force by using a method of transporting the dry particles through sieve electrode system to separate the clumped powder into individually isolated particles prior to charging and acceleration as presented in the introduction. The details of the design and optimization of sieving electrode system is beyond the scope of the present teachings. Results from a proof of concept experiment are presented with the goal of demonstrating the feasibility of this delivery system. The main goals of the proof of concept experiment are to demonstrate the functionality of the first prototype by confirming that particles are charged accelerated and ejected individually.

To experimentally investigate the method of delivering individual dry spherical particles through an ultra fine sieve prior to charging and accelerating the prototype shown in was constructed using a stainless steel cloth with orifice diameters of approximately 20 m and was tested with hollow aluminum spherical particles with diameters ranging from 5 m to 20 m. A cylindrical acrylic plunger is mounted beneath sieve electrode system and the space between the plunger and sieve electrode system acts as particle reservoir. The weight of the sieving system on particle reservoir along with a mechanical vibrational source not pictured forces particles through sieve electrode system . Mounted on the topside of sieve electrode system is the charging grid which is at a distance of approximately 7.5 mm from the surface of sieve electrode system and has a single 5 mm orifice to allow the passage of particles. Above the charging grid is the collection anode used to collect all ejected particles.

Sieve electrode system is electrically connected to ground while the charging grid and the collection anode are biased positive using a high voltage power supply to generate the charging electric field. Note that this prototype does not include any additional accelerating grids but stacking additional grids above the charging grid is possible. To verify that particles were ejected individually and not clumped in groups ejected particles were collected on glass slides placed just above the orifice in the charging grid and imaged using a scanning electron microscope SEM .

The effects of the adhesion and cohesion forces on the liquidless nanoFET system were presented along with potential methods of overcoming them. For conducting particles in a dry environment the dominant adhesion and cohesion force is the van der Waals force which scales directly with the size of particle . Overcoming the adhesion force by removing spherical conducting particles from a planar source electrode by way of applied electric fields was investigated. The electric force responsible for particle removal scales directly with the square of the size of particle while the adhesion force scales directly with the size of particle . This suggests that as the size of particle decreases the required electric field for removal increases. The models developed predict that particles with diameters down to hundreds or even tens of nanometers can be removed from a planar electrode. It should be appreciated that methods of reducing the required electrical force such as the use of mechanical vibration are also anticipated and discussed herein.

To investigate the particle removal model eight test cases involving 4 particle sizes and 2 electrode materials were studied. The tests agreed reasonably well with the model when using values of the Lifshitz van der Waals constants close to the expected ranges for all materials. But the values evaluated from the experimental data disagree with published values for the specific material combinations. Note that many authors are not in agreement on the published values. In addition the spread in the electric fields required to remove particles was large. The possible error in the Lifshitz van der Waals constants and the spread of the electric fields may be attributed primarily to the surface roughness and deformation of both particles and the electrode.

Overcoming the cohesion force in part by delivering particles through an ultra fine sieve was confirmed by performing a simple proof of concept experiment.

The foregoing description of the embodiments has been provided for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention. Individual elements or features of a particular embodiment are generally not limited to that particular embodiment but where applicable are interchangeable and can be used in a selected embodiment even if not specifically shown or described. The same may also be varied in many ways. Such variations are not to be regarded as a departure from the invention and all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of the invention.

