---

title: Selective ligands for the dopamine 3 (D) receptor and methods of using the same
abstract: 

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08283368&OS=08283368&RS=08283368
owner: The Regents of the University of Michigan
number: 08283368
owner_city: Ann Arbor
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090827
---
This is the U.S. national phase of International Application No. PCT US2009 055169 filed Aug. 27 2009 which claims the benefit of U.S. provisional patent Application No. 61 092 830 filed Aug. 29 2008.

This invention was made with government support under Grant No. R01DA020669 awarded by the National Institute of Drug Abuse National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to ligands for the dopamine 3 D receptor and to therapeutic methods of treating conditions and diseases wherein modulation of the Dreceptor provides a benefit.

Dopamine DA is a neurotransmitter that plays an essential role in normal brain functions. As a chemical messenger dopamine is similar to adrenaline. In the brain dopamine is synthesized in the pre synaptic neurons and released into the space between the pre synaptic and post synaptic neurons.

Dopamine affects brain processes that control movement emotional response and ability to experience pleasure and pain. Therefore the regulation of dopamine plays an important role in mental and physical health. Neurons containing dopamine are clustered in the midbrain area called the substantia nigra. Abnormal dopamine signaling in the brain has been implicated in a substantial number of pathological conditions including drug e.g. cocaine abuse depression anxiety schizophrenia Tourette s syndrome eating disorders alcoholism chronic pain obsessive compulsive disorders restless leg syndrome Parkinson s Disease and the like.

Dopamine molecules bind to and activate dopamine receptors on the post synaptic neurons. Dopamine molecules then are transported through the dopamine transporter protein DAT back into the pre synaptic neurons where they are metabolized by monoamine oxidase MAO . In conditions such as cocaine abuse cocaine binds to the dopamine transporter and blocks the normal flow of dopamine molecules. Excess concentrations of dopamine cause over activation of dopamine receptors. In other conditions such as Parkinson s Disease lack of sufficient dopamine receptors in the brain causes insufficient activation of dopamine receptors.

Dopaminergic neurotransmission is mediated by five dopamine receptors D D that can be grouped into the D like Dand D and D like D Dand D receptor subtypes. Recent studies suggest that the Dreceptor is a promising therapeutic target for a variety of conditions including drug abuse restless leg syndrome schizophrenia Parkinson s disease and depression 1 6 . Therefore considerable effort has been expended to discover and develop potent and selective Dligands 6 22 .

Despite these intense efforts the design and discovery of truly selective Dligands with good aqueous solubility and bioavailability remains a challenge. Compound 1 pramipexole is a known potent D preferring agonist but has limited selectivity over the Dreceptor in vitro 23 and in vivo 24 25 . Compound 2 BP 897 initially was reported as a Dpartial agonist and has a 67 fold selectivity over the Dreceptor 2 .

A number of potent and selective Dligands such as compound 3 have been designed based upon the core structure of compound 2 17 . Compound 4 is a potent and selective Dligand using hexahydropyrazinoquinoline as the core structure. Despite its relatively high affinity and excellent selectivity for Dover other dopamine receptor subtypes compound 4 has a poor aqueous solubility which limits in vivo evaluations. Poor aqueous solubility also is a major limitation for many recently disclosed selective Dligands and is an obstacle for evaluating these compounds in animal behavioral models and for a therapeutic potential.

Accordingly a need still exists in the art for a potent and selective Dligand having physical and pharmacological properties that permit use of the ligand in therapeutic applications. The present invention provides ligands designed to selectively bind to the Dreceptor subtype to partially or fully modulate e.g. agonism and or antagonism the Dreceptor with high selectivity.

The present invention is directed to potent and selective ligands for Dreceptors and to methods of using the ligands in a therapeutic treatment of conditions and diseases wherein modulation of the Dreceptors provides a benefit. More particularly the present invention is directed to compounds having a structural formula I 

wherein X is C O or SO Ris Calkyl Ris aryl heteroaryl aryl CH aryl or CH heteroaryl and n is 0 or 1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt solvate or hydrate thereof.

In one embodiment the present invention provides a method of treating a condition or disease by administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of structural formula I to an individual in need thereof. The disease or condition of interest is treatable by modulation of Dreceptors such as for example drug abuse Parkinson s disease restless leg syndrome schizophrenia and depression.

Another embodiment of the present invention is to provide a composition comprising a Dreceptor ligand of structural formula I and an excipient and or pharmaceutically acceptable carrier useful in treating diseases or conditions wherein modulation of Dreceptors provides a benefit i.e. a disease or condition of interest.

Another embodiment of the present invention is to utilize a composition comprising a compound of structural formula I and a second therapeutically active agent in a method of treating an individual for a disease or condition wherein modulation of Dreceptors provides a benefit.

In a further embodiment the invention provides for use of a composition comprising a Dligand of structural formula I and an optional second therapeutic agent for the manufacture of a medicament for treating a disease or condition of interest e.g. drug abuse Parkinson s disease restless leg syndrome schizophrenia and depression.

Still another embodiment of the present invention is to provide a kit for human pharmaceutical use comprising a a container b1 a packaged composition comprising a Dligand of structural formula I and optionally b2 a packaged composition comprising a second therapeutic agent useful in the treatment of a disease or condition of interest and c a package insert containing directions for use of the composition or compositions administered simultaneously or sequentially in the treatment of the disease or condition.

The Dligand of structural formula I and the second therapeutic agent can be administered together as a single unit dose or separately as multi unit doses wherein the Dligand of structural formula I is administered before the second therapeutic agent or vice versa. It is envisioned that one or more dose of the Dligand of structural formula I or one and or more dose of the second therapeutic agent can be administered.

In one embodiment the Dligand of structural formula I and second therapeutic agent are administered simultaneously. In related embodiments the Dligand of structural formula I and second therapeutic agent are administered from a single composition or from separate compositions. In a further embodiment the Dligand of structural formula I and second therapeutic agent are administered sequentially. The Dligand of structural formula I as used in the present invention can be administered in an amount of about 0.005 to about 500 milligrams per dose about 0.05 to about 250 milligrams per dose or about 0.5 to about 100 milligrams per dose.

In one preferred embodiment the present invention provides a method of treating a subject having a disease addiction or other pathological condition e.g. cocaine abuse depression anxiety an eating disorder alcoholism chronic pain obsessive compulsive disorder schizophrenia restless leg syndrome RLS Parkinson s disease and the like comprising administering to the subject a therapeutic dose of a compound of structural formula I or a composition containing the compound.

These and other aspects and features of the present invention will become apparent from the following drawings and detailed description of the preferred embodiments.

The present invention is described in connection with preferred embodiments. However it should be appreciated that the invention is not limited to the disclosed embodiments. It is understood that given the description of the embodiments of the invention herein various modifications can be made by a person skilled in the art. Such modifications are encompassed by the claims below.

As used herein the terms treat treating treatment and the like refer to eliminating reducing or ameliorating a disease or condition and or symptoms associated therewith. Although not precluded treating a disease or condition does not require that the disease condition or symptoms associated therewith be completely eliminated. The term treat and synonyms contemplate administering a compound of the invention to an individual in need of such treatment.

Within the meaning of the invention treatment also includes the treatment of acute or chronic signs symptoms and or malfunctions. The treatment can be orientated symptomatically for example to suppress symptoms. It can be effected over a short period be oriented over a medium term or can be a long term treatment for example within the context of a maintenance therapy.

The term therapeutically effective amount or effective dose as used herein refers to an amount of the active ingredient s that is are sufficient when administered by a method of the invention to efficaciously deliver the agents for the treatment of condition or disease of interest to an individual in need thereof.

The term container means any receptacle and closure therefor suitable for storing shipping dispensing and or handling a pharmaceutical product.

The term insert means information accompanying a pharmaceutical product that provides a description of how to administer the product along with the safety and efficacy data required to allow the physician pharmacist and patient to make an informed decision regarding use of the product. The package insert generally is regarded as the label for a pharmaceutical product.

 Concurrent administration administered in combination simultaneous administration and similar phrases mean that a composition comprising two or more agents are administered concurrently to the subject being treated. By concurrently it is meant that each agent is administered simultaneously or sequentially in any order at different points in time. However if not administered simultaneously they are in one aspect administered sufficiently closely in time so as to provide the desired treatment effect of the combination of agents. Suitable dosing intervals and dosing order of the agents will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art. It also is contemplated that two or more agents are administered from separate compositions and in one aspect one composition is administered prior to administration of the other composition. Prior administration refers to administration of the agents within one day 24 hours . It is further contemplated that one agent is administered subsequent to administration of the other agent. Subsequent administration is meant to describe administration from 30 minutes of the second agent up to one day 24 hours after administration of the first agent. Within 24 hours may include administration after 30 minutes 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 16 20 or 24 hours.

The use of the terms a an the and similar referents in the context of describing the invention especially in the context of the claims are to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural unless otherwise indicated. Recitation of ranges of values herein merely are intended to serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range unless otherwise indicated herein and each separate value is incorporated into the specification as if it were individually recited herein. The use of any and all examples or exemplary language e.g. such as provided herein is intended merely to better illustrate the invention and is not a limitation on the scope of the invention unless otherwise claimed. No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any non claimed element as essential to the practice of the invention.

The present invention is directed to potent and selective ligands for the Dreceptor ligand having a structural formula I 

wherein X is C O or SO Ris Calkyl Ris aryl heteroaryl aryl CH aryl or CH heteroaryl and n is 0 or 1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt solvate or hydrate thereof. The compounds of structural formula I modulate Dreceptors and are useful in the treatment of a variety of diseases and conditions.

In particular the compounds of structural formula I are used in methods of treating a disease or condition wherein modulation of the D3 receptor provides a benefit for example drug e.g. cocaine abuse depression anxiety schizophrenia Tourette s syndrome eating disorders alcoholism restless leg syndrome Parkinson s disease obsessive compulsive disorder and chronic pain. The method comprises administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of structural formula I to an individual in need thereof. The present methods also encompass administering a second therapeutic agent to the individual in addition to the compound of structural formula I . The second therapeutic agent is selected from drugs known as useful in treating the disease or condition afflicting the individual in need thereof.

As used herein the term alkyl refers to straight chained and branched saturated Chydrocarbon groups nonlimiting examples of which include methyl ethyl and straight chain and branched propyl butyl pentyl and hexyl groups.

As used herein the term aryl refers to a monocyclic or polycyclic aromatic group preferably a monocyclic or bicyclic aromatic group e.g. phenyl or naphthyl. Unless otherwise indicated an aryl group can be unsubstituted or substituted with one or more and in particular one to four groups independently selected from for example halo alkyl alkenyl OCF NO CN NC OH alkoxy Oalkyl amino NR wherein each R independently is hydrogen alkyl aryl or heteroaryl COH COalkyl aryl and heteroaryl. Exemplary aryl groups include but are not limited to phenyl naphthyl tetrahydronaphthyl chlorophenyl methylphenyl methoxyphenyl trifluoromethylphenyl nitrophenyl 2 4 methoxychlorophenyl and the like.

As used herein the term heteroaryl refers to a monocyclic or bicyclic ring system containing one or two aromatic rings and containing at least one nitrogen oxygen or sulfur atom in an aromatic ring. Unless otherwise indicated a heteroaryl group can be unsubstituted or substituted with one or more and in particular one to four substituents selected from for example halo alkyl alkenyl OCF NO CN NC OH alkoxy amino COH COalkyl aryl and heteroaryl. Examples of heteroaryl groups include but are not limited to thienyl furyl oxazolyl quinolyl thiophenyl isoquinolyl indolyl triazinyl triazolyl isothiazolyl isoxazolyl imidazolyl benzothiazolyl pyrimidinyl thiazolyl thiadiazolyl pyridinyl pyridazinyl pyrazolyl pyrazinyl quinolyl tetrazolyl oxazolyl pyrrolyl benzimidazolyl benzofuranyl cinnolinyl indazolyl indolizinyl phthalazinyl triazinyl isoindolyl purinyl oxadiazolyl furazanyl benzofurazanyl benzothiophenyl benzotriazolyl benzothiazolyl benzisothiazolyl benzoxazolyl benzisoxazolyl benzimidazolyl quinazolinyl quinoxalinyl napththyridinyl dihydroquinolyl tetrahydroquinolyl dihydroisoquinolyl tetrahydroisoquinolyl benzofuryl furopyridinyl pyrrolopyrimidinyl and azaindolyl.

As used herein the term Ccycloalkyl means a monocyclic aliphatic ring containing three to eight carbon atoms.

As used herein the term heterocycloalkyl means a monocyclic or a bicyclic aliphatic ring containing 5 to 10 total atoms of which one to five of the atoms are independently selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulfur and the remaining atoms are carbon.

Additionally salts hydrates and solvates of the compounds disclosed herein also are included in the present disclosure and can be used in the methods disclosed herein. For example an acid salt of a compound of structural formula I can be obtained by reacting the compound with a suitable organic or inorganic acid such as hydrogen chloride hydrogen bromide acetic acid perchloric acid and the like. Examples of such salts include but are not limited to hydrochlorides hydrobromides sulfates methanesulfonates nitrates maleates acetates citrates fumarates tartrates bisulfates phosphates besylates malates gluconates saccharates pamoates succinates benzoates and salts of amino acids such as glutamic acid.

In some embodiments compound of structural formula I contains an X that is carbonyl C O and n is 0 or 1. In other embodiments X is SOand n is 0 or 1 and preferably is 0.

Accordingly in preferred embodiments a compound of structural formula I wherein X is C O or SO and n is 0 or 1 as shown has a

Additional Rgroups are disclosed in Appendix A which constitutes a portion of the present disclosure.

In one embodiment the present invention discloses a method of treating an individual suffering from a disease or condition wherein modulation of the D3 receptor provides a benefit comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of structural formula I to an individual in need thereof.

The methods described herein relate to the use of a compound of structural formula I and an optional second therapeutic agent useful in the treatment of diseases and conditions wherein modulation of the Dreceptor provides a benefit. The method of the present invention can be accomplished by administering a compound of structural formula I as the neat compound or as a pharmaceutical composition. Administration of the pharmaceutical composition or neat compound of structural formula I can be performed during or after the onset of the disease or condition of interest. Typically the pharmaceutical compositions are sterile and contain no toxic carcinogenic or mutagenic compounds that would cause an adverse reaction when administered.

A compound of structural formula I also can be administered in conjunction with a second therapeutic agent useful in the treatment of a disease or condition wherein modulation of the Dreceptor provides a benefit. The second therapeutic agent is different from the compound of structural formula I . A compound of structural formula I and the second therapeutic agent can be administered simultaneously or sequentially. In addition the compound of structural formula I and second therapeutic agent can be administered from a single composition or two separate compositions. A compound of structural formula I and the optional second therapeutic agent can be administered simultaneously or sequentially to achieve the desired effect.

The second therapeutic agent is administered in an amount to provide its desired therapeutic effect. The effective dosage range for each second therapeutic agent is known in the art and the second therapeutic agent is administered to an individual in need thereof within such established ranges.

The present invention therefore is directed to compositions and methods of treating diseases or conditions wherein modulation of the Dreceptor provides a benefit. The present invention also is directed to pharmaceutical compositions comprising a compound of structural formula I and a second therapeutic agent useful in the treatment of diseases and conditions wherein modulation of the Dreceptor provides a benefit. Further provided are kits comprising a compound of structural formula I and optionally a second therapeutic agent useful in the treatment of diseases and conditions wherein modulation of the Dreceptor provides a benefit packaged separately or together and an insert having instructions for using these active agents.

As demonstrated below a compound of structural formula I is a potent and selective ligand for the Dreceptor and can be used in treating diseases and conditions like drug abuse and restless leg syndrome where modulation of the Dreceptor provides a benefit.

A compound of structural formula I used in a method of the present invention can be administered in an amount of about 0.005 to about 500 milligrams per dose about 0.05 to about 250 milligrams per dose or about 0.5 to about 100 milligrams per dose. For example a compound of structural formula I can be administered per dose in an amount of about 0.005 0.05 0.5 5 10 20 30 40 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 450 or 500 milligrams including all doses between 0.005 and 500 milligrams.

A compound of structural formula I can be formulated in suitable excipients for oral administration or for parenteral administration. Such excipients are well known in the art. A compound of structural formula I typically is present in such a composition in an amount of about 0.1 to about 75 by weight of the composition.

A compound of structural formula I and the second therapeutic agent can be administered together as a single unit dose or separately as multi unit doses wherein the compound of structural formula I is administered before the second therapeutic agent or vice versa. One or more dose of the compound of structural formula I and or one or more dose of the second therapeutic agent can be administered.

The compounds of structural formula I therefore can be used in conjunction with one or more second therapeutic agents for example but not limited to antipsychotic agents e.g. clozapine olanzapine quetiapine risperidone ziprasidone haloperidol and aripiprazole antidepressant agents such as tricyclic antidepressants e.g. amitriptyline dothiepin doxepin trimipramine butriptyline clomipramine desipramine imipramine iprindole lofepramine nortriptyline and protriptyline monoamine oxidase inhibitors e.g. isocarboxazid phenelzine and tranylcyclopramine 5 HT reuptake inhibitors e.g. fluvoxamine sertraline fluoxetine and paroxetine serotonin 1 B antagonists e.g. elzasonan serotonin 2A antagonists e.g. eplivanserin and MDL 100907 histamine 3 antagonists or agonists e.g. cipralisant ABT239 TISQ and GSK 189254A and or with antiparkinsonian agents such as dopaminergic antiparkinsonian agents e.g. levodopa preferably in combination with a peripheral decarboxylase inhibitor e.g. benserazide or carbidopa or with a dopamine agonist e.g. bromocriptine lysuride and pergolide .

The compounds of structural formula I are highly selective dopamine Dreceptor ligands which because of their low affinity for other receptors such as dopamine Dand D give rise to fewer side effects than compounds that are non selective D Dligands agonists partial agonists antagonists or inverse agonists . Compounds of the present invention can be selective agonists partial agonists antagonists or inverse agonists for the D3 receptor over other dopamine receptors.

The present invention provides a selective Dligand as exemplified by compounds of structural formula I for the treatment of a variety of diseases and conditions in which selective modulation of the Dreceptor has a beneficial effect. Preferably a compound of structural formula I is selective for the Dreceptor over the Dreceptor by a factor of at least 100 and over the Dreceptor by a factor of at least 1000.

Conditions and diseases of the central nervous system CNS are understood as meaning disorders which affect the spinal chord and in particular the brain. Within the meaning of the present invention the term disease or condition denote disturbances and or anomalies that as a rule are regarded as being pathological conditions or functions and that can manifest themselves in the form of particular signs symptoms and or malfunctions. The treatment methods according to the invention can be directed toward individual disorders i.e. anomalies or pathological conditions but it also is possible to treat several anomalies that may be causatively linked to each other to be combined into patterns i.e. syndromes.

The diseases and conditions that can be treated in accordance to the invention include for example psychiatric and neurological disturbances. These diseases and conditions include for example organic disturbances including symptomatic disturbances such as psychoses of the acute exogenous reaction type or attendant psychoses or organic or exogenous cause e.g. in association with metabolic disturbances infections and endocrinopathologies endogenous psychoses such as schizophrenia and schizotype and delusional disturbances affective disturbances such as depressions mania and or manic depressive conditions and also mixed forms of the above described diseases and conditions neurotic and somatoform disturbances and disturbances in association with stress dissociative disturbances e.g. loss of consciousness clouding of consciousness double consciousness and personality disturbances disturbances in attention and waking and or sleeping behavior such as behavioral disturbances and emotional disturbances whose onset lies in childhood and youth e.g. hyperactivity in children intellectual deficits in particular attention disturbances attention deficit disorders memory disturbances and cognitive disturbances e.g. impaired learning and memory impaired cognitive function dementia narcolepsy and sleep disturbances e.g. restless leg syndrome developmental disturbances anxiety states delirium sex life disturbances e.g. impotence in men eating disturbances e.g. anorexia or bulimia addiction and other unspecified disturbances.

The disorders which can be treated in accordance with the invention also include Parkinson s disease and epilepsy and in particular affective disturbances connected thereto.

The addiction diseases include psychic disorders and behavioral disturbances which are caused by the abuse of psychotropic substances such as pharmaceuticals or narcotics and also other addiction diseases such as addiction to gaming impulse control disorders not elsewhere classified . Examples of addictive substances are opioids e.g. morphine heroin and codeine cocaine nicotine alcohol substances which interact with GABA chloride channel complex sedatives hypnotics and tranquilizers for example benzodiazepines LSD cannabinoids psychomotor stimulants such as 3 4 methylenedioxy N methylamphetamine i.e. ecstasy amphetamine and amphetamine like substances such as methylphenidate and other stimulants including caffeine. Addictive substances of particular consideration are opioids cocaine amphetamine or amphetamine like substances nicotine and alcohol.

With regard to the treatment of addiction diseases particular preference is given to compounds of structural formula I that do not possess a psychotropic effect. This can be observed in a test using rats which after having been administered a compound of the invention reduce their self administration of a psychotropic substance for example cocaine.

According to another embodiment of the present invention the compounds of structural formula I are suitable for treating conditions and diseases whose cause can be at least partially attributed to an anomalous activity of dopamine Dreceptors.

According to another embodiment of the present invention the treatment is directed toward conditions and diseases that can be influenced by the binding of exogenously administered ligands to dopamine Dreceptors.

The diseases and conditions that can be treated with a compounds of the present invention frequently are characterized by progressive development i.e. the above described conditions change over the course of time and as a rule the severity increases and conditions possibly can merge into one another or other conditions appear in addition to those which already exist can appear.

The compounds according to the invention can be used to treat a large number of signs symptoms and or malfunctions that are connected to disease and condition of the central nervous system and in particular the abovementioned diseases and conditions. These signs symptoms and or malfunctions include for example a disturbed relationship to reality lack of insight and ability to meet customary social norms or the demands made by life changes in temperament changes in individual drives such as hunger sleep and thirst for example and mood disturbances in the ability to observe and combine changes in personality in particular emotional lability hallucinations ego disturbances distractedness ambivalence autism depersonalization and false perceptions delusional ideas chanting speech lack of synkinesia short step gait flexed posture of trunk and limbs tremor poverty of facial expression monotonous speech depressions apathy impeded spontaneity and decisiveness impoverished association ability anxiety nervous agitation stammering social phobia panic disturbances withdrawal symptoms in association with dependency maniform syndromes states of excitation and confusion dysphoria dyskinetic syndromes and tic disorders e.g. Huntington s chorea and Gilles de la Tourette s syndrome vertigo syndromes e.g. peripheral positional rotational and oscillatory vertigo melancholia hysteria hypochondria and the like.

Therefore compounds of the present invention are suitable for treatment of diseases of the central nervous system in particular for treating affective disorders neurotic disturbances stress disturbances and somatoform disturbances and psychoses and in particular for treating schizophrenia and depression. Because of their high selectivity with regard to the Dreceptor the compounds of structural formula I also are suitable for treating disturbances of kidney function which are caused by diabetes mellitus see WO 00 67847 incorporated herein by reference and especially diabetic nephropathy.

In the present method a therapeutically effective amount of one or more compound I as a rule formulated in accordance with pharmaceutical practice is administered to a human being in need thereof. Whether such a treatment is indicated depends on the individual case and is subject to medical assessment diagnosis that takes into consideration signs symptoms and or malfunctions which are present the risks of developing particular signs symptoms and or malfunctions and other factors.

A compound of structural formula I can be administered by any suitable route for example by oral buccal inhalation sublingual rectal vaginal intracisternal or intrathecal through lumbar puncture transurethral nasal percutaneous i.e. transdermal or parenteral including intravenous intramuscular subcutaneous intracoronary intradermal intramammary intraperitoneal intraarticular intrathecal retrobulbar intrapulmonary injection and or surgical implantation at a particular site administration. Parenteral administration can be accomplished using a needle and syringe or using a high pressure technique.

The pharmaceutical compositions include those wherein a compound of structural formula I is administered in an effective amount to achieve its intended purpose. Determination of a therapeutically effective amount is well within the capability of those skilled in the art especially in light of the detailed disclosure provided herein.

The exact formulation route of administration and dosage is determined by an individual physician in view of the diagnosed condition or disease. Dosage amount and interval can be adjusted individually to provide levels of a compound of structural formula I that is sufficient to maintain therapeutic effects. The amount of pharmaceutical composition administered is dependent on the subject being treated on the subject s weight the severity of the affliction the manner of administration and the judgment of the prescribing physician.

Specifically for administration to a human in the treatment of a disease or condition oral dosages of a compound of structural formula I individually generally are about 0.005 to about 500 milligrams daily for an average adult patient 70 kg typically one dose per day or divided into two to three doses per day. Thus for a typical adult patient individual doses contain about 0.005 to about 500 milligrams of compound I in a suitable pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle or carrier for administration in single or multiple doses once or several times per day. Dosages for intravenous buccal or sublingual administration typically are about 0.005 to about 250 milligrams kg per single dose as required. In practice the physician determines the actual dosing regimen that is most suitable for an individual patient and the dosage varies with the age weight and response of the particular patient. The above dosages are exemplary of the average case but there can be individual instances in which higher or lower dosages are merited and such are within the scope of this invention.

The compounds of the present invention can be administered alone or in admixture with a pharmaceutical carrier selected with regard to the intended route of administration and standard pharmaceutical practice. Pharmaceutical compositions for use in accordance with the present invention thus can be formulated in a conventional manner using one or more physiologically acceptable carriers comprising excipients and auxiliaries that facilitate processing of the compounds of structural formula I into preparations that can be used pharmaceutically.

These pharmaceutical compositions can be manufactured in a conventional manner e.g. by conventional mixing dissolving granulating dragee making emulsifying encapsulating entrapping or lyophilizing processes. Proper formulation is dependent upon the route of administration chosen. When a therapeutically effective amount of the compound of structural formula I is administered orally the composition typically is in the of a tablet capsule powder solution or elixir. When administered in tablet form the composition additionally can contain a solid carrier such as a gelatin or an adjuvant. The tablet capsule and powder contain about 1 to about 95 and preferably from about 1 to about 50 of a compound of structural formula I . When administered in liquid form a liquid carrier such as water petroleum or oils of animal or plant origin can be added. The liquid form of the composition can further contain physiological saline solution dextrose or other saccharide solutions or glycols. When administered in liquid form the composition contains about 0.1 to about 90 and preferably about 1 to about 50 by weight of a compound of structural formula I .

When a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of structural formula I is administered by intravenous cutaneous or subcutaneous injection the composition is in the form of a pyrogen free parenterally acceptable aqueous solution. The preparation of such parenterally acceptable solutions having due regard to pH isotonicity stability and the like is within the skill in the art. A preferred composition for intravenous cutaneous or subcutaneous injection typically contains an isotonic vehicle. A compound of structural formula I can be infused with other fluids over a 10 30 minute span or over several hours.

Compounds of structural formula I can be readily combined with pharmaceutically acceptable carriers well known in the art. Such carriers enable the active agents to be formulated as tablets pills dragees capsules liquids gels syrups slurries suspensions and the like for oral ingestion by a patient to be treated. Pharmaceutical preparations for oral use can be obtained by adding the compound of structural formula I to a solid excipient optionally grinding the resulting mixture and processing the mixture of granules after adding suitable auxiliaries if desired to obtain tablets or dragee cores. Suitable excipients include for example fillers and cellulose preparations. If desired disintegrating agents can be added.

A compound of structural formula I can be formulated for parenteral administration by injection e.g. by bolus injection or continuous infusion. Formulations for injection can be presented in unit dosage fowl e.g. in ampules or in multidose containers with an added preservative. The compositions can take such forms as suspensions solutions or emulsions in oily or aqueous vehicles and can contain formulatory agents such as suspending stabilizing and or dispersing agents.

Pharmaceutical compositions for parenteral administration include aqueous solutions of the active agent in water soluble form. Additionally suspensions of a compound of structural formula I can be prepared as appropriate oily injection suspensions. Suitable lipophilic solvents or vehicles include fatty oils or synthetic fatty acid esters. Aqueous injection suspensions can contain substances which increase the viscosity of the suspension. Optionally the suspension also can contain suitable stabilizers or agents that increase the solubility of the compounds and allow for the preparation of highly concentrated solutions. Alternatively a present composition can be in powder form for constitution with a suitable vehicle e.g. sterile pyrogen free water before use.

A compound of structural formula I also can be formulated in rectal compositions such as suppositories or retention enemas e.g. containing conventional suppository bases. In addition to the formulations described previously the compound of structural formula I also can be formulated as a depot preparation. Such long acting formulations can be administered by implantation for example subcutaneously or intramuscularly or by intramuscular injection. Thus for example the compounds of structural formula I can be formulated with suitable polymeric or hydrophobic materials for example as an emulsion in an acceptable oil or ion exchange resins.

In particular the compounds of structural formula I can be administered orally buccally or sublingually in the form of tablets containing excipients such as starch or lactose or in capsules or ovules either alone or in admixture with excipients or in the form of elixirs or suspensions containing flavoring or coloring agents. Such liquid preparations can be prepared with pharmaceutically acceptable additives such as suspending agents. The compounds of structural formula I also can be injected parenterally for example intravenously intramuscularly subcutaneously or intracoronarily. For parenteral administration the endothelin antagonists are best used in the form of a sterile aqueous solution which can contain other substances for example salts or monosaccharides such as mannitol or glucose to make the solution isotonic with blood.

As an additional embodiment the present invention includes kits which comprise one or more compounds or compositions packaged in a manner that facilitates their use to practice methods of the invention. In one simple embodiment the kit includes a compound or composition described herein as useful for practice of a method e.g. a composition comprising a compound of structural formula I and an optional second therapeutic agent packaged in a container such as a sealed bottle or vessel with a label affixed to the container or included in the kit that describes use of the compound or composition to practice the method of the invention. Preferably the compound or composition is packaged in a unit dosage form. The kit further can include a device suitable for administering the composition according to the intended route of administration.

As discussed above prior Dligands suffered from a low selectivity for the Dreceptor and or possessed physical properties e.g. a low water solubility that hindered development as therapeutic agents. One Dreceptor ligand approved for the treatment of Parkinson s disease and restless leg syndrome is pramipexole hydrochloride compound 1 . Compound 1 is a very potent Dligand and has a Kvalue of 0.78 nM to D see Table 1 below . Compound 1 also has an excellent aqueous solubility and an excellent pharmacological and toxicological profile in humans and in animals. Although compound 1 has been widely used as a Dpreferring ligand it also binds potentially to the high affinity state of the Dreceptor with a Kvalue of 3.1 nM Table 1 thus displaying only a 4 fold selectivity for the Dreceptor over the Dreceptor.

In accordance with an important feature of the present invention compounds of structural formula I were synthesized and evaluated as ligands for the dopamine 3 D receptor. For example compound 12 described below has a Kvalue of 0.41 nM to Dand a selectivity of 30 000 and 800 fold over the D like and Dreceptors respectively. In vivo functional assays show that compound 12 is a partial agonist at the Dreceptor with no detectable activity at the Dreceptor.

Solvents and reagents were obtained commercially and used without further purification. Reactions were monitored by TLC carried performed on 250 m E. Merck silica gel plates 60E 254 using UV light as a visualizing agent. E. Merck silica gel 60 particle size 15 40 m was used for flash column chromatography. NMR spectra were recorded on a Bruker Avance300 spectrometer 300 MHz . Chemical shifts are reported as values ppm downfield relative to TMS as an internal standard with multiplicities reported in the usual manner. High resolution electrospray ionization mass spectra MS were run on a Micromass AutoSpec Ultima mass spectrometer. Elemental analysis EA was performed using a Perkin Elmer 2400 Series II Analyzer. HPLC analysis was performed on a Waters 2795 using a Waters SunFire C18 150 mm 4.6 mm column mobile phase flow 1.0 mL min gradient water with 0.1 TFA acetonitrile with 0.1 TEA 0 50 and UV detection at 254 nm.

The synthesis of compound 5 comparative is outlined in Scheme 1. Briefly commercially available pramipexole compound 1 purchased from APAC Pharmaceutical Co. USA was treated with N 4 bromobutyl phthalimide in the presence of cesium carbonate CsCO in acetonitrile to afford amine 13. Compound 13 was treated with hydrazine to remove the phthalimide protective group to give the amine 14 followed by reaction with 2 naphthoyl chloride to provide compound 5.

The syntheses of compounds 6 10 is shown in Scheme 2. The carboxylic acid group in compound 15 was reduced to alcohol 16 by borane. Compound 16 was treated with tetrabromomethane and triphenylphosphione in dichloromethane to give bromide 17. Deprotection of Boc protective group followed by 2 naphthyl chloride treatment afforded bromide 18. 6S 4 5 6 7 Tetrahydro 1 3 benzothiazol 2 6 diamine 19 was reacted with the bromide 18 in the presence of CsCOand sodium iodide NaI in acetonitrile to give compound 10 which also was used as the key intermediate for the synthesis of compounds 6 9. Compound 10 was treated with different bromides and the products purified by chromatography to afford desired compounds 6 9.

The synthesis of compounds 11 and 12 is outlined in Scheme 3. Briefly 6S 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 1 3 benzothiazol 2 6 diamine 19 was reacted with the bromide 17 in the presence of CsCOand NaI in acetonitrile to give the key intermediate 20. Compound 15 was treated with n propyl bromide deprotected by 4M HCl and condensed with benzofuran 2 carboxylic acid or cinnamic acid to give designed compound 11 or 12.

 S 2 4 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydrobenzo d thiazol 6 yl propyl amino butyl isoindoline 1 3 dione 13 . N 4 bromobutyl phthalimide 2.25 g 7.98 mmol cesium carbonate 2.6 g 7.98 mmol and sodium iodide 1.80 g 12 mmol were added to a solution of pramipexole 1 1.53 g 7.25 mmol in acetonitrile 50 mL . After refluxing for 3 hours the mixture was evaporated in vacuo. The residue was partitioned between ethyl acetate and water. The organic layer was separated and washed with brine and dried over anhydrous NaSO. Flash column chromatography MeOH EtOAc 5 95 gave 13 as a colorless oil 2.7 g 90.4 . H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.88 8.00 m 2H 7.78 7.60 m 2H 4.90 s 2H 3.70 t J 7.2 Hz 2H 3.10 2.95 m 1H 2.78 2.30 m 8H 2.05 1.90 m 1H 1.77 1.60 m 3H 1.56 1.40 m 4H 0.87 t J 7.2 Hz 3H C NMR CDCl 75 MHz 168.89 165.83 145.53 134.28 132.53 123.58 117.96 57.59 52.97 50.41 38.34 27.01 26.81 26.71 26.05 25.33 22.64 12.24.

 S N 4 aminobutyl N propyl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydrobenzo d thiazole 2 6 diamine 14 Hydrazine hydrate 5 mL was added to a solution of compound 13 3.4 g 8.25 mmol in ethanol 30 mL and the mixture was refluxed for 2 hours. The mixture was evaporated in vacuo. The residue was partitioned between ethyl acetate and water. The organic layer was separated and washed with brine and dried over anhydrous NaSO. Evaporation of solvent afforded compound 14 as a colorless oil 2.32 g 99 which was used for the next step without further purification.

 S N 4 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydrobenzo d thiazol 6 yl propyl amino butyl 2 naphthamide 5 2 Naphthoyl chloride 0.92 g 4.8 mmol and DIPEA 0.62 g 4.8 mmol were added to a solution of compound 14 1.13 g 4.0 mmol in anhydrous dichloromethane. After stirring at room temperature for 2 hours the reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography MeOH EtOAc 1 9 to afford compound 5 as a colorless solid 1.40 g 80 . H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 8.28 s 1H 7.96 7.75 m 4H 7.60 7.45 m 2H 6.72 t J 5.7 Hz 1H 4.95 s 2H 3.52 q J 6.2 Hz 2H 3.10 2.95 m 1H 2.73 2.35 m 8H 2.00 1.88 m 1H 1.80 1.37 m 7H 0.89 t J 7.2 Hz 3H . C NMR CDCl 75 MHz 168.1 166.00 145.46 135.04 133.01 132.50 129.26 128.79 128.14 127.94 127.67 127.12 124.06 117.72 57.73 53.11 50.64 40.57 27.96 26.99 26.13 25.21 22.57 12.31. Free base was converted into its HCl salt. Anal. Calcd for CHNOS.2HCl.2HO C 55.05 H 7.02 N 10.27. Found C 54.62 H 7.10 N 10.12.

Trans tert butyl 4 2 hydroxyethyl cyclohexylcarbamate 16 1.0 M BH 15 mL 15 mmol in THF was added to a solution of compound 15 2.57 g 10 mmol in anhydrous THF 30 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 1 hour. The reaction was quenched with water and extracted with ethyl acetate. Solvent was removed in vacuo and the residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography Hexane EtOAc 1 1 to give 16 as a colorless oil 2.40 g 98 . H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 4.39 s broad 1H 3.69 t J 6.6 Hz 2H 3.45 3.25 m 1H 2.05 1.94 m 2H 1.85 1.70 m 2H 1.55 1.23 m 4H 1.45 s 9H 1.20 0.95 m 4H . C NMR CDCl 75 MHz 155.67 79.47 61.17 50.22 40.03 33.81 33.76 32.24 28.83.

Trans tert butyl 4 2 bromoethyl cyclohexylcarbamate 17 Triphenylphosphine 3.9 g 14.8 mmol and carbon tetrabromide 4.9 g 14.8 mmol were added to a solution of compound 16 3.0 g 12.3 mmol in dichloromethane 40 mL . The solution was stirred at 0 C. for 1 hour and room temperature for 1 hour. Solvent was removed in vacuo and the residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography Hexane EtOAc 6 1 to give compound 17 as a colorless solid 3.7 g 98 . H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 4.5 s broad 3.44 t J 7.0 Hz 2H 3.47 3.30 m 1H 2.10 1.92 m 2H 1.82 1.70 m 4H 1.45 s 9H 1.53 1.35 m 1H 1.25 0.90 m 4H . C NMR CDCl 75 MHz 155.63 79.49 50.13 39.92 35.59 33.80 33.57 32.17 31.54 31.29 29.08 28.83 28.55.

Trans N 4 2 bromoethyl cyclohexyl 2 naphthamide 18 4.0 M HCl solution in dioxane 4.0 mL 16.0 mmol was added to a solution of compound 17 1.0 g 3.3 mmol in dioxane 15 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. Solvent was evaporated in vacuo and the residue was used directly for the next step without further purification. 2 Naphthoyl chloride 750 mg 3.93 mmol and triethylamine 707 mg 7.0 mmol were added to a solution of the above residue in dichloromethane 20 mL . After stirring at room temperature for 2 hours the mixture was evaporated in vacuo. The residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography hexane EtOAc 3 1 to give compound 18 as a colorless solid 0.92 g 77 for two steps . H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 8.29 s 1H 7.98 7.80 m 4H 7.65 7.50 m 2H 6.15 d J 8.1 Hz 1H 4.10 3.95 m 1H 3.52 t J 7.0 Hz 2H 2.30 2.15 m 2H 1.97 1.80 m 4H 1.65 1.48 m 1H 1.43 1.10 m 4H C NMR CDCl 75 MHz 166.83 134.65 132.61 132.12 128.86 128.39 127.73 127.55 127.22 126.72 123.63 49.08 39.46 35.19 32.89 31.79 31.07.

Trans N 4 2 S 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydrobenzo d thiazol 6 ylamino ethyl cyclohexyl 2 naphthamide 10 Bromide 18 1.18 g 3.28 mmol cesium carbonate 1.59 g 4.90 mmol and sodium iodide 0.737 g 4.90 mmol were added to a solution of compound 19 0.554 g 3.28 mmol in acetonitrile 30 mL . After refluxing for 48 hours the mixture was evaporated in vacuo. The residue was partitioned between ethyl acetate and water. The organic layer was separated and washed with brine and dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate NaSO . Flash column chromatography MeOH EtOAc 1 6 gave compound 10 as a colorless solid 0.90 g 61 . H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 8.27 s 1H 7.95 7.84 m 4H 7.58 7.28 m 2H 6.12 d J 8.7 Hz 1H 4.81 s 2H 4.02 3.99 m 1H 3.04 2.80 m 2H 2.76 2.35 m 5H 2.30 2.00 m 3H 1.95 1.60 m 3H 1.55 1.10 m 8H C NMR CDCl 75 MHz 166.76 165.32 145.11 134.64 132.63 132.19 128.86 128.40 127.74 127.53 127.17 126.72 123.59 116.54 54.09 49.22 45.05 37.51 35.01 33.19 31.88 30.14 29.51 24.97 HRMS Electrospray m z M H calcd 449.2375. found 449.2369 purity HPLC 100.0 t 29.903 min.

Trans N 4 2 S 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydrobenzo d thiazol 6 yl propyl amino ethyl cyclohexyl 2 naphthamide 6 n Propyl bromide 38 mg 0.28 mmol cesium carbonate 108 mg 0.33 mmol and sodium iodide 50 mg 0.33 mmol were added to a solution of compound 10 100 mg 0.22 mmol in acetonitrile 15 mL . After refluxing for 48 hours the mixture was evaporated in vacuo. The residue was partitioned between ethyl acetate and water. The organic layer was separated and washed with brine and dried over anhydrous NaSO. Flash column chromatography MeOH EtOAc 1 6 gave 6 as a colorless oil 35 mg 32 . H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 8.27 s 1H 7.89 7.80 m 4H 7.56 7.40 m 2H 6.21 d J 8.1 Hz 1H 4.93 s 2H 4.10 3.90 m 1H 3.15 2.95 m 1H 2.80 2.30 m 8H 2.20 1.90 m 3H 1.89 1.61 m 3H 1.55 1.05 m 9H 0.90 t J 7.5 Hz 3H C NMR CDCl 75 MHz 166.76 165.55 145.10 134.61 132.60 132.19 128.84 128.35 127.71 127.50 127.18 126.68 123.63 117.33 57.44 52.62 49.25 48.52 35.98 35.17 33.20 31.95 26.59 25.78 24.87 22.16 11.88 HRMS Electrospray m z M H calcd 491.2845. found 491.2845 purity HPLC 100.0 t 31.816 min.

Trans N 4 2 S 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydrobenzo d thiazol 6 yl butyl amino ethyl cyclohexyl 2 naphthamide 7 . Compound 7 was prepared under similar conditions as described for compound 6 28 . H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 8.28 s 1H 7.92 7.81 m 4H 7.57 7.40 m 2H 6.26 s broad 1H 5.01 s 2H 4.05 3.90 m 1H 3.40 2.40 m 8H 2.30 2.10 m 3H 2.00 1.50 m 7H 1.49 1.05 m 8H 0.95 t J 7.2 Hz 3H C NMR CDCl 75 MHz 167.18 135.04 133.01 132.49 129.28 128.77 128.13 127.95 127.65 127.11 124.07 50.83 49.49 49.13 35.63 33.38 32.16 25.05 20.94 14.31 HRMS Electrospray m z M H calcd 505.3001. found 505.2995 purity HPLC 99.7 t 34.009 min.

Trans N 4 2 S 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydrobenzo d thiazol 6 yl isopentyl amino ethyl cyclohexyl 2 naphthamide 8 . Compound 8 was prepared under similar conditions as described for 6 25 . H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 8.27 s 1H 7.93 7.80 m 4H 7.56 7.48 m 2H 6.15 d J 8.1 Hz 1H 4.87 s 2H 4.10 3.90 m 1H 3.50 2.50 m 8H 2.30 2.10 m 3H 2.00 1.10 m 14H 0.94 d J 6.0 Hz 6H . C NMR CDCl 75 MHz 166.78 144.81 134.65 132.61 132.06 128.88 128.39 127.74 127.56 127.24 126.72 123.64 HRMS Electrospray m z M H calcd 519.3158. found 519.3150 purity HPLC 98.3 t 35.819 min.

Trans N 4 2 S 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydrobenzo d thiazol 6 yl 2 cyclohexylethyl amino ethyl cyclohexyl 2 naphthamide 9 . Compound 9 was prepared under similar conditions as described for 6 18 . H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 8.29 s 1H 7.90 7.70 m 4H 7.55 7.35 m 2H 6.36 s broad 1H 5.17 s 2H 4.10 3.90 m 1H 3.50 2.45 m 8H 2.35 2.05 m 3H 2.00 0.80 m 24H C NMR CDCl 75 MHz 166.81 166.24 144.63 134.63 132.60 132.03 128.89 128.34 127.71 127.54 127.31 126.68 123.72 58.81 49.06 48.79 48.63 35.98 35.38 35.16 34.80 33.22 32.88 31.72 29.69 26.55 26.37 26.14 24.63 HRMS Electrospray m z M H calcd 559.3471. found 559.3465 purity HPLC 100.0 t 40.403 min.

Trans tert butyl 4 2 S 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydrobenzo d thiazol 6 ylamino ethyl cyclohexylcarbamate 20 . Bromide 17 1.1 g 3.6 mmol cesium carbonate 1.47 g 4.5 mmol and sodium iodide 0.68 g 4.5 mmol were added to a solution of compound 19 0.63 g 3.0 mmol in acetonitrile 40 mL . After refluxing for 48 hours the mixture was evaporated in vacuo. The residue was partitioned between ethyl acetate and water. The organic layer was separated and washed with brine and dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate NaSO . Flash column chromatography MeOH EtOAc 1 6 gave compound 20 as a colorless oil 0.8 g 61 . H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 4.93 s 2H 4.02 d J 7.4 Hz 1H 3.50 3.30 m 1H 3.10 2.95 m 1H 2.80 2.35 m 8H 2.05 1.90 m 3H 1.85 1.60 m 3H 1.55 1.00 m 9H 1.44 s 9H 0.87 t J 7.2 Hz 3H .

Trans N 4 2 S 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydrobenzo d thiazol 6 yl propyl amino ethyl cyclohexyl benzofuran 2 carboxamide 11 . 4.0 M HCl solution in dioxane 1.0 mL 4.0 mmol was added to a solution of compound 20 87 mg 0.2 mmol in dioxane 10 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. Solvent was evaporated in vacuo and the residue was used directly for the next step without further purification. To a solution of the residue in tetrahydrofuran THF 20 mL were added benzofuran 2 carboxylic acid 32 mg 0.2 mmol 1 ethyl 3 3 dimethylaminopropyl carbodiimide EDCI 38 mg 0.2 mmol 1 hydroxybenzotriazole HOBT 27 mg 0.2 mmol and diisopropylethylamine DIPEA 103 mg 0.8 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. Solvent was evaporated in vacuo. The residue was partitioned between ethyl acetate and water. The organic layer was separated and washed with brine and dried over anhydrous NaSO. Flash column chromatography MeOH EtOAc 1 6 gave compound 11 as a colorless oil 60 mg 63 . H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.68 d 7.6 Hz 1H 7.52 7.28 m 4H 6.49 d J 8.2 Hz 1H 4.82 s broad 2H 3.98 3.85 m 1H 3.50 2.25 m 8H 2.20 1.10 m 16H 0.94 t J 6.6 Hz 3H C NMR CDCl 75 MHz 158.50 155.06 149.22 128.06 127.22 124.08 123.11 112.08 110.71 52.80 48.68 35.63 33.04 31.74 19.26 11.97 11.77 HRMS Electrospray m z M H calcd 481.2637. found 481.2637 purity HPLC 99.2 t 29.761 min.

Trans N 4 2 S 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydrobenzo d thiazol 6 yl propyl amino ethyl cyclohexyl cinnamamide 12 . 4.0 M HCl solution in dioxane 1.0 mL 4.0 mmol was added to a solution of compound 20 87 mg 0.2 mmol in dioxane 10 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. Solvent was evaporated in vacuo and the residue was used directly for the next step without further purification. To a solution of the residue in THF 20 mL were added cinnamic acid 29 mg 0.2 mmol EDCI 38 mg 0.2 mmol HOBT 27 mg 0.2 mmol and DIPEA 103 mg 0.8 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. Solvent was evaporated in vacuo. The residue was partitioned between ethyl acetate and water. The organic layer was separated and washed with brine and dried over anhydrous NaSO. Flash column chromatography MeOH EtOAc 1 6 gave compound 12 as a colorless oil 75 mg 80 . H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.63 d J 15.6 Hz 1H 7.52 7.35 m 5H 6.39 d J 15.6 Hz 1H 5.60 s broad 1H 4.90 s 2H 3.95 3.80 m 1H 3.30 2.30 m 8H 2.20 1.95 m 3H 1.93 1.02 m 13H 0.92 t J 6.6 Hz 3H C NMR CDCl 75 MHz 165.87 165.05 144.85 140.66 134.92 129.54 128.77 127.73 121.10 69.73 57.86 52.54 48.71 35.18 33.06 31.80 30.84 26.34 25.36 24.76 18.88 11.79 HRMS Electrospray m z M H calcd 467.2845. found 467.2830 purity HPLC 95.4 t 29.227 min.

The following additional compounds of the invention were prepared by the above synthetic schemes using appropriate starting materials 

Compounds having an affinity for the dopamine D3 receptor have been disclosed for example in WO 95 04713 WO 96 23760 WO 97 45503 WO 98 27081 WO 99 58499 WO 05 118588 WO 06 040182 WO 06 082456 WO 06 066885 and WO 08 026 046. Some of these compounds possess moderate affinities and or selectivities for the dopamine Dreceptor and therefore have been proposed as suitable for treating diseases of the central nervous system. Unfortunately the affinity and selectivity of these compounds towards the Dreceptor and or their pharmacological profile are not satisfactory. Consequently there is an ongoing need to provide new compounds that preferably have a high affinity for the Dreceptor and an improved selectivity. The compounds also should have a good pharmacological profile e.g. a high brain plasma ratio a high bioavailability a good metabolic stability and or a decreased inhibition of the mitochondrial respiration.

The present compounds exhibit these beneficial properties. In particular crystal structures for the human 2 adrenergic 2AD G protein coupled receptor GPCR were solved 26 27 . The human Dreceptor structure was modeled upon the high resolution crystal structures of 2AD receptor because these two proteins belong to the same GPCR sub family 28 and share close sequence homology. Because the crystal structure of 2AD receptor was solved with an inverse agonist bound to it a modeled Dstructure is theorized but not relied upon to represent the conformational state bound to either antagonists or inverse agonists.

The binding of pramipexole compound 1 to the Dreceptor structure was modeled through computational docking followed by extensive refinement. The predicted model showed that the primary amino group in the thiazole ring of compound 1 forms a hydrogen bonding network with the hydroxyl groups of Ser192 and Ser193. The thiazole ring in compound 1 is parallel to the imidazole ring in His349 thereby providing a favorable stacking interaction. The protonated nitrogen in compound 1 forms a salt bridge with the negatively charged Asp110. The n propyl group in compound 1 inserts into a hydrophobic channel formed by Cys114 Phe345 Phe346 Trp342 and Try373.

The predicted model of compound 1 complexed with the Dreceptor suggested ample available room to accommodate a larger hydrophobic group where the n propyl group in compound 1 binds. In the adjacent area is another well defined but smaller hydrophobic cavity formed by Cys114 Phe197 and Trp342 residues. Compound 5 comparative therefore was synthesized to explore the interactions with these two pockets.

Compound 5 was tested for its binding affinities to the dopamine receptors using the same methods as described previously See Table 1 below 21 . It was found that compound 5 has a Kvalue of 0.043 nM to the Dreceptor being 18 times more potent than compound 1. Compound 5 however also potently binds to the high affinity state of the Dreceptor with a Kvalue of 2.7 nM thus displaying a 62 fold selectivity for the Dreceptor over the Dreceptor. Similar to compound 1 compound 5 has a weak affinity to the D like receptors and has a Kvalue of 11 000 nM. Although compound 5 has a very high affinity to the Dreceptor its selectivity over the Dreceptor is modest.

Table 1 summarizes the binding affinities at the D like D and Dreceptors in binding assays using rat brain. Data represent the mean SEM of three to five independent determinations. For compounds producing a 2 site fit in competition with H spiperone Kvalues are presented for the high and low affinity components and are indicated by the designation h or 1 . All other Kvalues are based on a single site model.

In a design of prior art compound 4 it was shown that introduction of a trans cyclohexyl group into the linker region yielded ligands with much improved selectivity for the Dreceptor over the Dreceptor compared to a linear 4 carbon linker. Therefore compound 6 was designed to investigate whether introduction of a rigid cyclohexyl group into compound 5 may improve the selectivity. Compound 6 binds to the Dand Dreceptors with Kvalues of 0.40 nM and 307 nM respectively. Hence compound 6 is a potent Dligand and displays an excellent selectivity of 763 fold for the Dreceptor over the Dreceptor.

Compounds 7 10 then were designed and synthesized to investigate the effect of the n propyl group of compound 6 on binding and selectivity. Compound 7 with an n butyl group has a slightly weaker affinity for the Dreceptor than compound 6 and exhibited a 2 site competition curve at the Dreceptor with roughly a 10 fold less selectivity for the Dreceptor over the Dreceptor with a high affinity binding component. Compound 8 with an isopentyl group is 5 times less potent than compound 6 to the Dreceptor but has a similar binding affinity to the Dreceptor. Compound 9 with a bulky cyclohexylethyl group is 55 times less potent than compound 6 to the Dreceptor but is only 3 times less potent than compound 6 to the Dreceptor. Compound 10 with a hydrogen atom at this site has a Kvalue of 7.6 nM to the Dreceptor being 19 times less potent than compound 6 but their binding affinity to the Dreceptor are essentially the same. Therefore binding data suggests but is not relied upon that substitution on this nitrogen atom has a major effect on binding to the Dreceptor but modest influence on binding to the Dreceptor. The data shows that the n propyl group in compound 6 enhances the binding affinity to the D receptor by 19 fold compared to the hydrogen atom in compound 10.

The influence of the naphthyl group in compound 6 on binding and selectivity also was investigated. Compound 11 in which the naphthyl group is replaced by a 2 benzofuran binds to the Dreceptor with the same affinity K 0.5 nM as compound 6 but its selectivity over the Dreceptor is decreased to 133 fold due to an increased binding affinity to the Dreceptor. Compound 12 in which a cinnamyl group replaces the naphthyl group retains a high binding affinity for the D receptor K 0.41 nM and displays 800 and 30 000 fold selectivity over the Dand D like receptors. These data suggest but not relied upon that the modifications of the naphthyl group can have a significant effect on the selectivity.

Compounds 5 6 and 12 have good aqueous solubility. For example the dihydrochloride salt form of compound 6 has an aqueous solubility greater than 100 mg ml. This excellent aqueous solubility provides an ability to evaluate an in vivo functional profiles in animals.

Recently in vivo functional assays for the Dand Dreceptors have been validated. 24 25 . Yawning in rats provides a sensitive measure of in vivo agonist activity at the dopamine Dreceptor 24 25 while the induction of hypothermia has been shown to be mediated by agonist activity at the Dreceptor 32 33 . By employing these validated assays compounds 5 6 and 12 were evaluated for their in vivo functional activity at the Dand Dreceptors. Compound 1 a known Dand Dagonist was used as a control in the evaluations. The results are summarized in .

As seen in and consistent with data obtained in previous studies 24 25 increases in yawning were observed over low doses 0.01 to 0.1 mg kg of compound 1 with inhibition of yawning and the induction of hypothermia occurring at higher doses. These data indicate that compound 1 functions as a preferential Dagonist in vivo and a Dagonist at higher doses.

Compound 5 induced yawning and produced an inverted U shaped dose response curve. The maximum levels of yawning induced by compound 5 are very similar to that induced by compound 1. Further more hypothermia was induced by compound 5 at higher doses concurrent with decreases in yawning. These data show that compound 5 functions as a full agonist at the Dand Dreceptors in vivo consistent with the 2 site competition curve observed in the H spiperone binding assay for compound 1 and compound 5 . Furthermore the in vivo data suggest that compound 5 is bioavailable.

Unlike compounds 1 and 5 the dose response curves for compounds 6 and 12 induced yawning were relatively flat and failed to reach significance during the initial 30 minute observation period. While significant levels of yawning induced by compounds 6 and 12 were observed after 60 minutes the dose response curves for both compounds remained relatively flat. Moreover compounds 6 and 12 failed to induce changes in body temperature over the initial hour of observation an effect that is indicative of Dagonist activity. Together the low levels of yawning combined with the absence of any hypothermic effect suggest that compounds 6 and 12 function as weak partial agonists at the Dreceptor with no detectable agonist activity at the Dreceptor.

The ability of compound 12 to alter pramipexole induced yawning and hypothermia was evaluated and the data are shown in . Similar to the effects of compound 12 alone but unlike the effects of D selective antagonists low levels of yawning were observed during the initial 30 minutes after administration of either 10.0 or 32.0 mg kg of compound 12. This effect persisted upon administration of low doses of pramipexole as significant increases in yawning were observed when rats were pretreated with compound 12 10.0 or 32.0 mg kg . However compound 12 resulted in a dose dependent decrease in the amount of yawning observed following the maximally effective dose of pramipexole at 0.1 mg kg. No significant effects of compound 12 were observed at higher doses of pramipexole 0.32 and 1 mg kg . These data suggest that compound 12 is capable of antagonizing the D mediated effects of pramipexole.

However the profile of activity for compound 12 is different from that observed for selective Dantagonists which generally produce selective rightward and or downward shifts of the ascending limb of the yawning dose response curve for D preferring agonists without increasing the amount of yawning observed at low doses. In fact the effects of compound 12 alone and in combination with pramipexole suggest that it is more similar to the partial agonist aripiprazole than an antagonist. Moreover compound 12 failed to alter the induction of hypothermia by pramipexole an effect that is indicative of Dagonist activity which can be reliably blocked by both selective and non selective Dantagonists 32 33 . Together the data provides evidence that compound 12 is a partial agonist at the Dreceptor with no detectable agonist or antagonist activity at the Dreceptor thus possessing a novel in vivo functional profile.

In summary a series of enantiomerically pure compounds of structural formula I have been synthesized and their binding and selectivity to the D D like and Dreceptor has been evaluated. The present invention therefore identifies several potent and highly selective Dligands with excellent aqueous solubility. In vivo functional evaluations show for example that while compound 5 functions as a full Dagonist compound 12 behaves as a selective Dpartial agonist with no activity at the Dreceptor.

The present invention therefore is directed to a class of potent and selective Dligands that are highly potent and selective for the Dreceptor over the other dopamine receptor subtypes and that have a unique of pharmacological and behavioral profile. The present ligands have the therapeutic potential for the treatment of for example drug abuse Parkinson s diseases restless leg syndrome and other conditions in which modulation of the Dreceptor is desirable.

The human dopamine subtype 3 D receptor was homology modeled using the crystal structure of human 2 Adrenergic 2AD receptor PDB entry 2RH1 at 2.4 resolution as the template 26 . The sequence alignment used was based on sequence analysis of 493 members of the amine sub family of GPCR proteins 35 . Initial 3D models of the human Dwere generated using the program Modeller version 9v2 36 . The initial Dreceptor models from Modeller then were inserted into a 2 palmitoyl 2 oleoyl sn glycero 3 phosphatidylcholine POPC membrane 37 in a TIP3 water environment. Molecular dynamic MD simulations were performed to further refine the modeled structures of the Dreceptor using Gromacs version 3.3.1 with united atom representation for the receptor 38 .

For docking all the binding poses of the compounds with the Dreceptor were predicted using the GOLD program version 3.1 39 40 . The center of the binding site for the Dreceptor was set at center of the Asp110 with a radius of 13 large enough to cover the binding pocket. For each genetic algorithm GA run a maximum number of 200 000 operations were performed on a population of 5 islands of 100 individuals. Operator weights for crossover mutation and migration were set to 95 95 and 10 respectively. The docking simulations were terminated after 10 runs for each compound. GoldScore implemented in Gold was used as the fitness function to evaluate the docked conformations. The ten conformations ranked highest by each fitness function were saved for analysis of the predicted docking modes. For the docking poses reported in these were the highest ranked conformations from the docking simulations.

Determination of Ddopamine receptor affinity and selectivity were performed in membranes prepared from the brains of adult male Sprague Dawley rats Harlan Sprague Dawley Indianapolis Ind. . All compounds were dissolved in 100 ethanol at a concentration of 5 mM.

 H PD 128907 binding assays. H PD 128907 binding assays for D3 receptors dopamine receptors were performed as previously described in detail 30 31 . Rat ventral striatum nucleus accumbens and olfactory tubercles was prepared in assay buffer 50 mM Tris 1 mM EDTA pH 7.4 at 23 C. to yield a final concentration of 10 mg original wet weight o.w.w. ml. Membranes were incubated with H PD 128907 0.3 nM 116 Ci mmol Amersham Arlington Heights Ill. and various concentrations of competing compounds 10to 10M . Nonspecific binding was defined by 1 M spiperone. Assay tubes were incubated at 23 C. for 3 hours. The reaction was terminated by rapid vacuum filtration. Data were analyzed using SigmaPlot 8.0.2. using the Kvalue for H PD 128907 of 0.3 nM 30 . Kvalues are expressed at the mean SEM of 3 6 independent determinations.

 H Spiperone binding assays. H spiperone binding assays for D like receptors were performed as previously described in detail 29 31 and as described for H PD 128907 except for the following. Assays were performed using membranes prepared from rat caudate putamen which predominantly express the Dsubtype of D like receptors and the final membrane homogenate concentration was 1.5 mg o.w.w. ml. The assay buffer was 50 mM Tris HCl 5 mM KCl 2 mM MgCl and 2 mM CaCl pH 7.4 at 23 C. the concentration of H spiperone 24 Ci mmol Amersham was 0.2 nM and the incubation time was 90 minutes at 23 C. Nonspecific binding was defined in the presence of 1 M butaclamol. Kvalues were determined using the Kvalue for H spiperone of 0.1 nM 29 .

 H SCH 23390 binding assays. H SCH 23390 binding assays for D like dopamine receptors were performed as previously described in detail 31 and as described for H spiperone binding except the concentration of H SCH 23390 73 Ci mmol Amersham was 0.3 nM. Kvalues were determined using the Kvalue for H SCH 23390 of 0.3 nM 31 .

Rats were purchased from Harlan Indianapolis Ind. and housed three to a cage for yawning studies and one to a cage for hypothermia studies. Rats used in the hypothermia studies had a radio telemetric probe E 4000 E Mitter Mini Mitter Bend Oreg. USA implanted into their peritoneal cavity and were allowed 7 days to recover prior to experimentation as previously described 25 . Yawning studies were performed as previously described 24 25 with yawning defined as a prolonged about 1 second wide opening of the mouth followed by a rapid closure. The capacity of pramipexole and other compounds investigated to induce yawning and hypothermia was assessed using a single dosing procedure one dose per rat with yawns recorded for a period of 60 minutes and hypothermia for a period of 120 minutes after s.c. 1 ml kg administration of compounds. The capacity of CJ 1037 to alter the induction of yawning and hypothermia by pramipexole was assessed using a multiple dosing procedure in which rats were first treated with CJ 1037 0.0 10.0 or 32.0 mg kg followed by five successive doses of pramipexole each separated by 30 minutes. Yawning was recorded for 30 minutes after each injection. Determination of changes in core body temperature for compounds alone were determined by comparing body temperature 30 and 60 minutes after each single dose of compounds to that obtained 1 minute prior to injection of that compound while the effects of compound 12 on pramipexole induced hypothermia were determined by comparing the differences in core body temperature 30 minutes after each dose of compound 12 alone or in combination with pramipexole to the body temperature obtained 1 min prior to the injection of compound 12. Yawns and changes in core body temperature are presented as the mean standard error of the mean SEM with 8 yawning or 6 hypothermia rats per group. A one way repeated measures ANOVA with post hoc Dunnett s tests was used to determine significant changes in yawning or body temperature compared to vehicle treated animals while significant effects of compound 12 on pramipexole induced yawning and hypothermia were determined by two way repeated measures ANOVA with post hoc Bonferroni tests GraphPad Prism GraphPad Software Inc. San Diego Calif. .

wherein R and R independently are selected from the group consisting of hydrogen Calkyl Ccycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl and heteroaryl.

