---

title: Treatment and prevention of infections
abstract: The present invention is drawn to the nucleic and amino acid sequences encoding vaginolysin (VLY) toxin from , and biologically active fragments and variants thereof. The invention is also directed to anti-VLY antibodies and to their use therapeutically and in a new ELISA assay of VLY toxin. Other embodiments of the invention are directed to VLY toxoids and to vaccines that use the new VLY toxoids as immunogens.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08802112&OS=08802112&RS=08802112
owner: The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York
number: 08802112
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090316
---
This present application is a national stage application of PCT Application No. PCT US2009 037328 filed Mar. 16 2009 and claims priority of U.S. Provisional Application. No. 61 036 943 filed Mar. 15 2008 and U.S. Provisional Application. No. 61 057 190 filed May 29 2008 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein under 35 U.S.C. 119 e .

This invention was made with government support under National Institutes of Health Grant AI065450. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to the discovery of the nucleic acid sequence and amino acid sequence encoding a newly identified pore forming toxin called vaginolysin VLY and to methods for diagnosing preventing and treating and bacterial vaginosis BV . Other aspects are related to vaccines that include a toxoid form of VLY as an immunogen.

Bacterial vaginosis BV is the most common vaginal infection worldwide and is associated with significant adverse consequences including and preterm labor and delivery 40 41 post partum endometritis 42 and an increased risk of HIV acquisition. 43 45 Reported prevalence rates range from 10 40 depending upon the population studied. 46 However suboptimal methods of diagnosis and a high percentage of asymptomatic patients make the true prevalence of BV difficult to ascertain. is a bacterial species associated with bacterial vaginosis BV .

The pathogenesis of BV remains poorly understood. It is most commonly defined as a pathological state characterized by the loss of normal vaginal flora particularly species and overgrowth of other microbes including species species and . Recent data however suggest a primary role for as a specific and sexually transmitted etiological agent in BV as was initially postulated by Gardner and Dukes in 1955. 47 49 

Alterations of both local host immunity and the genital tract microflora appear to contribute to the pathogenesis of BV 39 which can be difficult to eradicate even using targeted antimicrobial therapy 4 . In addition randomized trials of antibiotics for the prevention of BV associated preterm birth have not shown consistently beneficial effects suggesting that host inflammatory responses set in motion early in the course of disease may contribute significantly to the consequences of infection 26 27 .

In the 1950s Leopold 25 and then Gardner and Dukes 14 observed abundant small pleomorphic gram variable rods in the genital tract of women with BV. This organism first called 13 and repeatedly renamed as more information about its characteristics became available reviewed in 5 is now classified as the sole member of the genus 16 30 . Phylogenetic analysis based on 16S rRNA places in the gram positive family Bifidobacteriales. An abundance of and a paucity of species are characteristic of a BV associated microflora but the relative contribution of to the pathogenesis of BV is not clear. is present in essentially all cases of BV but can also be detected in a minority of asymptomatic women 1 . Likewise several groups have demonstrated that the vaginal microflora is exceedingly complex in BV where the vaginal mucosa is host to many non organisms 12 18 20 . Mechanistic studies of BV and its adverse consequences have been limited by the absence of definitive diagnostic testing and a suitable animal model 22 23 26 . Existing methods of diagnosis for BV are suboptimal and frequently underutilized by practitioners. A recent study by Hogan et al. reports that the prevalence of BV among pregnant women varies greatly depending on the diagnostic criteria used. 51 Established in 1983 Amsel s criteria are widely accepted as the best available means for diagnosing BV in the clinical setting however these criteria are complex somewhat subjective and necessitate that microscopy equipment be present on site. 52 53 The Nugent scoring system for interpretation of Gram stained vaginal smears was put forth in an attempt to standardize diagnosis of BV and increase inter rater reliability. 54 While the Nugent scoring system exhibits superior sensitivity and specificity compared to the Amsel criteria 55 its use remains largely restricted to research protocols. Furthermore questions regarding the risk of potential morbidities and the need for antimicrobial therapy in those women found to have intermediate flora remain unanswered. 56 57 

Several alternative diagnostic methodologies focusing upon the detection of microbial virulence factors produced by the various BV associated organisms have been proposed in recent years. These include detection of bacterial sialidases determination of amine levels and measurement of proline aminopeptidase activity. 58 60 While these techniques are relatively simple rapid and inexpensive they fail to identify the specific microbial pathogens present. A potential role for novel molecular based techniques for diagnosing BV has recently emerged. Importantly preliminary studies evaluating these PCR based strategies have provided additional evidence for as the primary etiologic agent of BV. 61 63 Menard et al. analyzed 213 vaginal samples from pregnant women using molecular probes targeting 8 BV related organisms. 64 These authors report that an increased load of 10copies of DNA per ml had both high negative and positive predictive values for the diagnosis of BV. While these molecular based diagnostic strategies are promising the required expertise laboratory resources and expense limits their use in the primary care setting.

The global impact of the HIV epidemic cannot be overstated. Even as antiretroviral drugs prolong and improve life for HIV infected people in wealthy nations millions of people suffer and ultimately perish from the ravages of the disease worldwide. Despite this and despite decades of research prevention and cure of HIV remain elusive goals. Thus there is a need for novel and creative approaches to preventing HIV acquisition. BV is exceedingly common especially in Africa where more than 50 of women in numerous trials including the recent trial of acyclovir for HSV suppression in Tanzania 1 were infected with BV. BV has been repeatedly associated with both increased risk of HIV acquisition and increased viral shedding among those already infected with HIV2. In vitro treatment of HIV infected cells with leads to increased production of viral transcripts. Comparatively little attention has been paid to targeting BV as a means of affecting the progression of the HIV epidemic due to several factors 1 BV is not a traditional sexually transmitted infection STI and is often omitted from analyses of STI HIV interactions 2 is enigmatic difficult to culture without an available genome sequence lacking known virulence factors and perhaps most importantly without an animal model 3 BV and colonization are extremely difficult to eradicate even with targeted antibiotic therapy. A randomized controlled trial of mass antibiotic treatment targeting STI in Uganda did not affect the prevalence of BV in either the control or the treatment group emphasizing the challenges of BV prevention and treatment and failing to address the impact of an efficacious BV therapy 4 .

Therefore there is a great need for a new methods and compositions to and BV to minimize the risk of transmitting HIV from person to person particularly from an HIV positive mother who has to a fetus or an infant during delivery.

Certain embodiments of the present invention are directed to an isolated nucleic acid encoding VLY toxin protein from identified as the nucleotide sequence SEQ ID No 1 from strains 14018 or 14019 SEQ ID NO 3 from strain 49145 or SEQ ID NO 10 from strain ARG3 and degenerate variants or fragments thereof. Other embodiments are directed to an isolated nucleic acid encoding domain 4 of VLY from identified as nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID No 4 from strains 14018 or 14019 or SEQ ID NO 12 from strain 49145 and degenerate variants or fragments thereof. Other embodiments are directed to an isolated nucleic acid encoding the undecapeptide of VLY from identified as nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID No 6 from strains 14018 or 14019 or SEQ ID NO 14 from strain 49145 and degenerate variants or fragments thereof.

Other embodiments are directed to isolated and purified VLY protein from identified by the amino acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO 2 from strains 14018 and 14019 and SEQ ID NO 11 from strain ARG3 and biologically active fragments or variants thereof. Other embodiments are directed to the isolated and purified conserved undecapeptide region of VLY of the amino acid sequence EKTGLVWEPWR of which is set forth as SEQ ID NO 7 or a biologically active fragment or variant thereof and the undecapeptide region for toxoid 480P EKTGLVWEWWR set forth in SEQ ID NO 8. Also claimed are isolated and purified domain 4 peptides of VLY of the amino acid sequences of which are set forth in SEQ ID NO 5 from strains 14018 and 14019 or SEQ ID NO 13 from strain 49145 and biologically active fragments or variants thereof. Another embodiment is directed to isolated and purified immunogenic VLY polypeptide fragments that include at least ten consecutive amino acid residues of SEQ ID NO 2 from strains 14018 or 14019 and SEQ ID NO 3 from strain 49145 and variants thereof.

Other embodiments are directed to various isolated and purified pore forming toxoids of VLY from as defined herein and to their use in a VLY vaccine.

Other embodiments are directed to a method for diagnosing and treating a infection or bacterial vaginosis in a patient the steps of which include a. obtaining a biological sample from the patient b. detecting the presence of VLY protein having the amino acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO 2 or SEQ ID NO 3 or a biologically active fragment or variant thereof in the biological sample taken from the patient and c. if the VLY protein is detected then administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of an antibiotic known to treat or a protective agent that is a member selected from the group comprising anti VLY antibody anti PLY antibody anti CD59 antibody anti pneumolysin antibody soluble CD59 VLY toxoid or a biologically active fragment or variant thereof.

Other embodiments are directed to methods for treating or preventing a infection or bacterial vaginosis in a patient by administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of a protective agent that is a member selected from the group comprising anti VLY antibodies including newly discovered rabbit polyAnti VLY anti PLY antibodies anti CD59 antibodies anti pneumolysin antibodies soluble CD59 VLY toxoid or biologically active fragments or variants thereof.

Other embodiments are directed to compositions for therapeutic use that include anti VLY antibodies preferably polyAnti VLY and to compositions that include two compounds selected from the group comprising soluble CD59 anti CD59 anti VLY anti PLY or anti pneumolysin monoclonal or polyclonal antibodies or immunologically active fragments or variants thereof including polyAnti VLY VLY toxoids or immunologically active fragments or variants thereof and antibiotics known to treat bacterial vaginosis or

Other embodiments are directed to an ELISA kit for diagnosing infection in a patient comprising a detection antibody that specifically binds to VLY protein identified by SEQ ID NO 2 or SEQ ID NO 11 or a biologically active fragment thereof including a kit wherein the detection antibody is rabbit polyAnti VLY. In some embodiments the detection antibody is covalently bound to an enzyme. The kit optionally provides a substrate for the enzyme. Other embodiments are directed to an ELISA kit that also contains a secondary antibody covalently bound to an enzyme which secondary antibody specifically binds to the detection antibody and a substrate for the enzyme. Still other embodiments are directed to an Elisa kit including a capture molecule that specifically binds to VLY including soluble CD59 anti VLY antibody anti PLY antibody and anti pneumolysin.

Other embodiments are directed to methods for reducing or preventing the transmission of HIV to another human by a woman infected with HIV and bacterial vaginosis by administering to the woman before the woman engages in a sexual activity a therapeutically effective amount of a composition comprising a protective agent selected from the group comprising soluble CD59 anti CD59 or anti VLY anti PLY polyAntiPLY or anti pneumolysin monoclonal or polyclonal antibodies VLY toxoids or biologically active fragments or variants thereof. Other embodiments are directed to methods of reducing or preventing maternal to fetal transmission of HIV from a pregnant woman diagnosed as being infected with both HIV and bacterial vaginosis by administering to the woman prior to a vaginal birth of a fetus a therapeutically effective amount of a protective agent selected from the group comprising soluble CD59 anti CD59 or anti VLY anti PLY polyAntiPLY or anti pneumolysin monoclonal or polyclonal antibodies VLY toxoids or fragments or variants thereof.

Another embodiment is directed to the polyclonal rabbit anti VLY antibody poly Anti VLY or an immunologically active fragment or variant thereof ant to compositions that include this antibody.

By protein or polypeptide is meant any chain of amino acids regardless of length or post translational modification e.g. glycosylation or phosphorylation .

A pure polypeptide refers to a polypeptide substantially free from naturally associated molecules i.e. it is at least 75 e.g. at least 80 85 90 or 95 or 100 pure by dry weight. Purity can be measured by any appropriate standard method for example by column chromatography polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis or HPLC analysis.

 Peptide variants and peptide modifications are used synonymously here and mean polypeptides that may contain one or more substitutions additions deletions and or insertions such that the therapeutic and antigenic properties of the peptide encoded by the variant are not substantially diminished relative to the corresponding peptide such as VLY. Such modifications may be readily introduced using standard mutagenesis techniques such as oligonucleotide directed site specific mutagenesis. Variants also include what are sometimes referred to as fragments. Peptide variants may contain one or more amino acid substitutions additions deletions and or insertions. When VLY toxin and toxoids are discussed in the context of expression activity immunogenicity or binding to receptors on target cells the terms include biologically active fragments and variants thereof. The amino acids used to make peptides and variants include synthetic amino acids known in the art.

As used herein the term VLY means wild type vaginolysin VLY polypeptide that is the human specific CDC from . VLY is the only known species specific factor of . VLY is encoded by DNA SEQ ID NO. 1 in 14018 and 14019 and by DNA SEQ ID NO. 3 in strain 49145. The amino acid sequence of VLY is set forth in SEQ ID NO. 2. As used herein VLY includes biologically active fragments and peptide variants thereof whether naturally occurring mutants or man made mutants.

As used herein the term VLY toxoid means VLY protein that has reduced pore forming activity compared to wild type VLY due to the presence of one or more amino acid substitutions but that retains enough immunologic activity to elicit an immune response in an animal.

Unless otherwise indicated a therapeutically effective amount of a compound is an amount that provides a therapeutic benefit in the treatment or management of a disease or condition such as Bacterial vaginosa BV or delays or minimizes one or more symptoms associated with the disease or condition or enhances the therapeutic efficacy of another therapeutic agent. An agent is said to be administered in a therapeutically effective amount if the amount administered results in a desired change in the physiology of a recipient mammal e.g. decreases one or more symptoms of the BV or or decreases the amount of in a biological sample taken from the patient to a level that is at least about 10 less than the level before drug treatment. A therapeutically effective amount for reducing the risk of transmitting HIV from a infected woman to a sexual partner or a baby during birth is an amount that reduces or eliminates viral shedding from HIV infected cells or that reduces or eliminates the viral load in a biological sample taken from the vagina birth canal.

Nucleic acids in the context of this invention include oligonucleotides which refers to an oligomer or polymer of ribonucleic acid RNA or deoxyribonucleic acid DNA or mimetics thereof. This term includes oligonucleotides composed of naturally occurring nucleobases sugars and covalent internucleoside backbone linkages as well as oligonucleotides having non naturally occurring portions which function similarly. Such modified or substituted oligonucleotides are often preferred over native forms because of desirable properties such as for example enhanced cellular uptake enhanced affinity for nucleic acid target and increased stability in the presence of nucleases.

An isolated nucleic acid is a nucleic acid the structure of which is not identical to that of any naturally occurring nucleic acid or to that of any fragment of a naturally occurring genomic nucleic acid. The term therefore covers for example a a DNA which has the sequence of part of a naturally occurring genomic DNA molecule but is not flanked by both of the coding sequences that flank that part of the molecule in the genome of the organism in which it naturally occurs b a nucleic acid incorporated into a vector or into the genomic DNA of a prokaryote or eukaryote in a manner such that the resulting molecule is not identical to any naturally occurring vector or genomic DNA c a separate molecule such as a cDNA a genomic fragment a fragment produced by polymerase chain reaction PCR or a restriction fragment and d a recombinant nucleotide sequence that is part of a hybrid gene i.e. a gene encoding a fusion protein.

As used herein protective agents are agents that block or reduce the toxic biological activity of VLY. They include agents that bind to or associate with VLY at a site that interferes with the ability of VLY to bind to CD59 receptor on a target host cell or otherwise reduce the ability of VLY to cause pores in target cells or reduce the ability of VLY to increase shedding in HIV infected cells or reduce infections or BV. Protective agents include soluble CD59 or fragments or variants thereof that are capable of neutralizing VLY polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies to CD59 PLY VLY pneumolysin and immunologic fragments or variants thereof and VLY toxoids that can compete with the more toxic VLY for binding to CD59. Also included is newly discovered polyAnti VLY and antibiotics that are known to treat bacterial vaginosis and infections.

In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details.

Bacterial vaginosis a chronic infectious inflammatory disease associated with preterm birth is strongly linked with the mucosal overgrowth of and its attachment to epithelial cells. To summarize we have cloned sequenced characterized isolated and purified the human specific cholesterol dependent cytolysin CDC pore forming toxin vaginolysin VLY from several human strains of 14018 14019 49145 and ARG3 . VLY the only known species specific factor for is most closely related to intermedilysin ILY from . 15 29 . We have kept the name vaginolysin VLY for consistency with CDC nomenclature.

VLY lyses target cells in a species specific manner that is dependent upon the complement regulatory molecule CD59. In addition to causing erythrocyte lysis VLY activates the conserved epithelial p38 mitogen activated protein kinase pathway and induces interleukin 8 production by human epithelial cells. Transfection of human CD59 into non susceptible cells rendered them sensitive to VLY mediated lysis. In addition single amino acid substitutions in VLY including some in the undecapeptide region such as VLY P480W generated toxoids that did not form pores. Introduction of the analogous proline residue into another CDC pneumolysin significantly decreased its cytolytic activity.

Certain embodiments of the present invention are directed to 1 isolated nucleic acid encoding VLY protein or a degenerate variant or fragment thereof from various strains of and to isolated and purified VLY protein or a biologically active fragment or variant thereof 2 an isolated and purified nucleic acid encoding domain 4 or a degenerate variant or fragment thereof from various strains of and to isolated and purified domain 4 region of VLY or a biologically active fragment or variant thereof and 3 an isolated and purified nucleic acid encoding the undecapeptide or a degenerate variant or fragment thereof from various strains of and the isolated and purified undecapeptide region of VLY or a biologically active fragment or variant thereof. So far we have found that the undecapeptide region is conserved.

Certain other embodiments are directed methods for diagnosing infection by detecting the presence of VLY protein in a biological sample preferably using a new ELISA with detection antibodies to VLY.

Certain other embodiments are directed to various newly discovered toxoid forms of human VLY protein or an immunogenic fragment or variant thereof that has reduced pore forming activity compared to wild type VLY. Another embodiment is directed to a composition comprising one or more purified VLY toxoid proteins and to a method of eliciting an immune response in an animal by introducing this toxoid composition into the animal. Other compositions of the present invention include a vaccine comprising one or more VLY toxoids.

Other embodiments include a method for permeabilizing a cell membrane such as a cancer cell to kill the cell or in the case of cancer render it more accessible to chemotherapeutic agents comprising contacting the cell with a composition that includes purified VLY protein or a biologically active fragment or variant thereof. Another embodiment is directed to VLY toxin that is bound to a molecule that is targeted specifically to the cancer cell or VLY toxin that is bound to a chemotherapeutic agent.

We have discovered that VLY binds to CD59 receptor on epithelial cells which enables it to permeabilize the vaginal epithelial cell. Therefore certain embodiments are directed to methods for treating or preventing and bacterial vaginosis by administering one or more protective agents including soluble CD59 itself and or Anti CD59 monoclonal or polyclonal antibodies small molecules or anti VLY and anti PLY antibodies that prevent VLY from binding to its CD59 receptor on target cells including vaginal epithelial confirm cells or otherwise block its pore forming ability.

Using purified VLY toxin as an immunogen we generated polyclonal rabbit immune serum IS having a polyclonal rabbit anti VLY antibody that we named polyAnti VLY. PolyAnti VLY inhibited VLY mediated lysis of human cervical carcinoma cells and vaginal epithelial cells therefore polyAnti VLY has therapeutic use and can be used in an ELISA kit for detecting VLY.

Certain embodiments of the invention are directed to methods that treat BV in order to reduce transmission of HIV from an HIV BV infected woman to her sexual partner or to a fetus she may be carrying or to an infant during childbirth by administering one or more of the described protective agents.

The CDC family is made up of more than 15 protein toxins produced by several distinct gram positive genera reviewed in 38 . The basic local alignment search tool BLAST was used to compare raw genomic DNA sequence data from the 14018 genome project available at http med.stanford.edu sgtc research gardnerella vaginalis.html available at with a database of known microbial genes Comprehensive Microbial Resource J. Craig Venter Institute . We identified a 1551 base pairs bp open reading frame with 54 DNA sequence identity to pneumolysin the CDC that we proceeded to analyze. This genomic region was amplified from 14018 ATCC by PCR cloned and sequenced. See Example 1. SEQ ID NO 1 sets forth the DNA sequence encoding VLY protein from species 14018 and 14019 which are identical. VLY made by strain 49145 is set forth in SEQ ID NO. 3. Certain embodiments are directed to nucleic acids identified by SEQ ID NO 1 and 3 or a biologically active fragment or variant thereof. Other embodiments are directed to a vector that includes the DNA SEQ ID NO 1 or 3 encoding VLY protein from strains 14018 and 14019 or 49145 respectively or a biologically active fragment or variant thereof.

The predicted amino acid sequence of VLY from strains 14018 and 14019 set forth in SEQ ID NO. 2 exhibits sequence similarity and identity consistent with reported relationships among members of the CDC family Appendix . The predicted sequence of VLY from strain ATCC 49145 is identical with the exception of a single amino acid substitution R494H See SEQ ID NO. 3 . Certain embodiments are directed to the isolated and purified naturally occurring and recombinant VLY proteins described herein and to biologically active variants and fragments thereof including those having the amino acid sequences set forth in SEQ ID NO 2 for VLY from strains 14018 19 and the amino acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO 11 for VLY from ARG3. An embodiment of the invention is directed also to Codon optimized VLY gene sequence that has the same protein sequence as VLY from strain 14018 DNA SEQ ID NO 9 which greatly improves yield and purity of recombinant toxin made in

The phylogram of CDC protein sequences demonstrates three distinct groupings a group into which VLY falls a group and a group also containing SLO . The members of the clade have the most divergence in the domain 4 undecapeptide including the presence of a proline residue as an insertion pyolysin or substitution intermedilysin VLY . In the case of pyolysin the unusual undecapeptide has been shown to be required for pore formation 3 . Seeligeriolysin the CDC from has an alanine to phenylalanine substitution in the undecapeptide that causes a decrease in toxin efficacy compared to listeriolysin 0 21 .

A phylogram of representative full length CDC sequences obtained from publicly available databases Appendix was constructed using the neighbor joining algorithm. By this analysis VLY appears to be most closely related to ILY and it falls within a group consisting of most of the CDC from genus including pneumolysin mitilysin and suilysin. Pyolysin from 2 is the least similar member of this group. VLY is more distantly related to CDC from the and genera as well as streptolysin O from which is divergent from the other streptococcal CDC. Bootstrap analysis indicates a high degree of confidence for the placement of VLY in the streptococcal group data not shown .

The undecapeptide is an 11 amino acid sequence in domain 4 of the CDCs that is well conserved and of particular importance for host cell interaction and pore formation 38 . The nucleic acid sequences encoding the undecapeptide of are set forth in DNA SEQ ID NO 6 for strains 14018 and 14019 nucleic acid residues 1414 1446 and DNA SEQ ID NO 14 for strain 49145. The VLY undecapeptide is divergent from the CDC consensus sequence at 3 of 11 sites one of which is an alanine to valine substitution. More strikingly there is a proline substitution at VLY position 480 the site of one of the conserved tryptophan residues that is important for pore formation in other CDC family members 24 . The loss of the conserved cysteine residue at the second position of the undecapeptide is seen in two other CDC ILY and pyolysin and is consistent with the prior report of insensitivity of the toxin to reducing agents 35 . Western blot analysis of lysed bacteria demonstrates a 57 kD band that cross reacts with a monoclonal antibody directed against the CDC pneumolysin.

Purified recombinant human specific VLY from strains 14018 and 14019 identified by amino acid or a fragment or variant thereof that also comes within the scope of this invention migrates at a similar molecular weight to natural VLY and is also detected by anti pneumolysin antibody . One embodiment of the invention is directed to treating a infection by administering anti pneumolysin antibody and or anti VLY antibody preferably locally in the form of a gel vaginal suppository.

Our results show that domain 4 stretches from the conserved tyrosine at position 376 amino acid position to the end of the protein which is 516 amino acids long. Certain embodiments are directed to the corresponding DNA SEQ ID NO 4 encoding domain 4 that begins at nucleotide 1126 and continues to the end of the DNA molecule for strains 14018 9 and SEQ ID NO 12 for strain 49145 and to amino acid sequences of domain 4 as set forth in SEQ ID NO 5 for strains 14018 9 and SEQ ID NO 13 for strain 49145 .

Recombinant VLY produced in was used for studies of toxin interaction with target cells. Purified recombinant VLY lysed primary human erythrocytes in a dose dependent fashion . In contrast sheep mouse and horse data not shown erythrocytes were resistant to lysis even at substantially higher VLY concentrations. Erythrocytes from all of these species were lysed by pneumolysin a non species restricted member of the CDC family . Preincubation of VLY with cholesterol inhibited lysis of human erythrocytes in a dose dependent manner consistent with its classification within the CDC family . Thus VLY is species specific for lysing human cells.

We have also noted profound ultrastructural changes in epithelial cells exposed to sublytic quantities of VLY about 250 ng ml using live cell imaging of HeLa cells. This response occurred rapidly 

VLY Lytic Activity Requires Binding to Complement Regulatory Molecule CD59 on the Surface of Epithelial Cells

The human specificity of the hemolysin was noted in earlier studies 8 but no specific mechanism for this was described. The recent characterization of human CD59 as a receptor for intermedilysin ILY represented a major step forward in the understanding of the mechanism of action of CDC which were previously thought to bind cholesterol directly as the sole requirement for pore formation. The results presented below show that that this model is oversimplified and that at least a subset of the CDCs including VLY require protein receptors on the surface of target cells 15 .

The results in show that blockade of CD59 on the surface of primary human erythrocytes using monoclonal antibody MEM 43 clone abrogated VLY induced lysis. By contrast antibody against another erythrocyte surface marker CD55 was ineffective anti CD59 antibodies for use in treating and bacterial vaginosis infections are commercially available for example from Santa Cruz Biotechnology and Genetex. Thus surface CD59 on epithelial cells is the receptor for VLY and binding of CD59 by VLY is necessary for lytic activity.

Our results showed that the activity of pneumolysin a CDC that does not exhibit host specificity was not inhibited by either anti CD59 or anti CD55 . However transfection of human CD59 into Chinese hamster ovary CHO cells significantly increased lactate dehydrogenase release in the setting of treatment with VLY but not pneumolysin indicating that CD59 is sufficient to confer susceptibility on at least a subset of VLY resistant cells.

CD59 is expressed on the surface of human genital tract epithelial cells the target cell type during colonization and BV as demonstrated by immunofluorescence staining with monoclonal antibody against hCD59 MEM 43 clone . Secondary anti mouse IgG Alexa Fluor 488 green was used. hCD59 has also been shown to be highly expressed in the female genital tract in vivo along with other complement regulatory molecules 70 .

Certain embodiments of the invention are directed to methods for treating infection by 1 administering soluble CD59 itself CD59 with the GPI anchor deleted to saturate or neutralize VLY thereby preventing it from binding to CD59 receptor on vaginal epithelial cells or 2 administering anti CD59 or anti VLY polyclonal or monoclonal antibodies that prevent binding of VLY to the CD59 receptor on vaginal epithelial cells. Monoclonal Anti CD59 antibodies are commercially available from several sources.

Anti VLY antibodies can be directed to the VLY protein or to a biologically active fragment or variant thereof including domain 4 and the undecapeptide regions of VLY. In a preferred embodiment the therapeutic anti CD59 and anti VLY antibodies and CD59 are locally administered for example as a vaginal suppository. Such local administration is not only efficient requiring fewer antibodies but it also enables a high concentration of the therapeutic agent to be delivered to the target cells. Since CD59 is ubiquitous and plays an important role protecting cells from damage by complement it is also important to specifically target CD59 expressed on the surface of the target epithelial cells and not administer it systemically.

The discovery of the pore forming toxin VLY in expands the CDC family to another gram positive genus and to a novel anatomic site. CDCs are produced by organisms that colonize and cause disease at mucosal surfaces including the upper and lower respiratory tracts and the gastrointestinal tract. In many such cases toxin production has been shown to be essential for maintenance of colonization pathogenesis of invasive disease or both 38 . CDCs have been described only in gram positive organisms. Thus the characterization of VLY and its evolutionary relationship to the other CDC provides further evidence that is most properly grouped with the gram positives despite its variable staining characteristics 36 . Antibiotics that have been used to treat BV and infections include metronidazole clindamycin and tinidazole.

Metronidazole is the most successful therapy. Most comparative studies using multiple divided dose oral regimens for one week achieved early rates of clinical cure in excess of 90 percent and cure rates by Amsel criteria of approximately 80 percent at four weeks. A randomized trial showed that short term cure rates were significantly higher when the initial course of metronidazole therapy was 14 days rather than 7 days Schwebke J R Desmond R A. A randomized trial of the duration of therapy with metronidazole plus or minus azithromycin for treatment of symptomatic bacterial vaginosis. Clin Infect Dis 2007 44 213. . However long term cure rates 21 days after completion of therapy were similar for both treatment regimens. In one embodiment the oral regimen of tronidazole is 500 mg twice daily for seven days. Sexually Transmitted Diseases Treatment Guidelines 2006. MMWR Recomm Rep 006. RR 11 55 1 95. Topical vaginal therapy with 0.75 percent metronidazole gel 5 g once daily for five days is as effective as oral metronidazole. The choice of oral versus topical therapy depends upon patient preference.

Clindamycin can be used as a topical vaginal therapy with 2 percent clindamycin cream 5 g of cream containing 100 mg of clindamycin phosphate as a seven day regimen. Alternative regimens include oral clindamycin 300 mg twice daily for seven days or clindamycin ovules 100 mg intravaginally once daily for three days Sexually Transmitted Diseases Treatment Guidelines 2006. MMWR Recomm Rep 2006 RR 11 55 1 95 Paavonen J Mangioni C Martin M A Wajszczuk C P. Vaginal clindamycin and oral metronidazole for bacterial vaginosis a randomized trial. Obstet Gynecol 2000 96 256 . A one day or single application of clindamycin as a bioadhesive has also been approved by the FDA Clindesse . These regimens have not been studied extensively and may have lower efficacy for eradicating BV.

Tinidazole is a second generation nitroimidazole. It has a longer half life than metronidazole 12 to 14 hours versus 6 to 7 hours and fewer side effects Tinidazole Tindamax a new option for treatment of bacterial vaginosis. Med Lett Drugs Ther 2007 49 73 . In one embodiment 1 g tinidazole is administered orally once daily for five days as efficacy is slightly higher and side effects are slightly less frequent than with shorter course therapy tinidazole 2 g orally daily for two days .

VLY Toxoids The Proline Residue in the Variant Undecapeptide of VLY Residue 480 is Required for Cytolytic and Cell Stimulatory Activity

Although hemolysis is a useful model for toxin induced pore formation erythrocytes are unlikely to be a target cell for under normal physiologic conditions as bacteremia is exceedingly rare 11 33 . Activation of p38 mitogen activated protein kinase MAPK is a conserved element in epithelial detection of bacterial pore forming toxins 32 and appears to be essential in defense of host cells from toxin attack 19 . Exposure of the human cervical epithelial cell line HeLa to VLY led to phosphorylation of p38 MAPK within 30 minutes consistent with epithelial responses to other pore forming toxins 32 . shows that IL 8 mRNA is upregulated in HeLa cells by VLY and is dependent on there being a proline at position 480 in the undecapeptide. The data showing that VLY activates the p38 MAPK and IL 8 pathways in human epithelial cells shows that VLY produced by as a major factor in the immunopathology of BV.

Nucleic acid and amino acid sequence alignments are set forth in the Appendix. At the protein level the undecapeptide is identical strains 14018 and 14019. DNA sequences encoding VLY are identical for strains 14018 and 14019 and strains 49145 and ARG3 are very close with several single base substitutions seen in the alignment . For example there is a single silent base pair substitution G A at nucleotide position 1428 in 49145 compared to the other two 14018 and 14019 . One nucleotide substitution leads to a change in VLY protein sequence R H at amino acid position 494 in the 49145 strain. This change is in domain 4 but after the undecapeptide region.

Genetic and structural studies have implicated domain 4 D4 of the CDC as being crucial for membrane association. Specifically the undecapeptide appears to have a significant role in CDC function. Because of the importance of the undecapeptide to toxin function we created a mutant named VLY P480W using site directed mutagenesis to make a single amino acid substitution of tryptophan was for proline at position 480. This change converted the proline residue in the VLY undecapeptide to the consensus tryptophan residue which has been shown to be crucial to the function of several other CDC that contain the consensus undecapeptide.

Notably the P480W mutation produced a VLY toxoid that was substantially less effective at lysing human erythrocytes . In addition this proline to tryptophan mutation abolished p38 activation and IL 8 transcription in HeLa cells compared to wild type VLY . This proline residue does not dictate species specificity but appears to be crucial for toxin function. These findings underscore the importance of D4 and specifically the undecapeptide to CDC function even among the hCD59 dependent CDCs. These results confirm that proline at amino acid residue 480 of VLY is necessary for efficient pore formation and cell activation by VLY. Because the P480W toxoid is significantly less toxic lytic activity is reduced than native VLY toxin it can be used in vaccines that elicit a specific immune response to VLY toxin.

In order to investigate further the potential role of proline in pore forming activity we made the converse mutation at the corresponding location W435P in pneumolysin the species non specific CDC from . This pneumolysin mutant lysed erythrocytes but only at concentrations much higher than wild type toxin . This indicates that a substitution of tryptophan W for proline caused a loss of pore forming activity. Construction of the corresponding mutation in PLY i.e. substitution of proline for tryptophan at position 435 similarly led to a substantial decrease in its lytic activity.

Certain embodiments of the invention are also directed to toxoids of PLY and penumolysin wherein there is an amino acid substitution of tryptophan for proline in the undecapeptide and to the use of the PLY toxoids to elicit an immune response in a host.

These findings emphasize the importance of the structure of the undecapeptide region to the function of CDCs. Likewise the substitution of a lysine residue for the conserved cysteine in the undecapeptide is a modification unique to VLY. Prior reports have demonstrated that the hemolysin is not thiol activated 35 . The lack of enhancing effect of a reducing agent is consistent with this modification in the undecapeptide. Of note in other CDC family members the conserved cysteine residue confers thiol activating properties but is not essential for pore forming activity 37 .

The following newly identified toxoids all have decreased pore forming activity compared to the wild type toxin and are therefore useful in making a vaccine or antibodies against VLY or eliciting an immune response in a patient against . Certain embodiments are directed to the toxoids listed below 

1. Some or all of domain 4 is deleted. a portion of the sequence can be removed or substituted or a premature stop codon can be inserted and

2. Some or all of the amino acids in the undecapeptide aa472 483 are replaced with alanine or phenylalanine substitutions for the proline at position 480 in native VLY as stated before are particularly useful.

Certain embodiments of the present invention are directed to isolated and purified VLY recombinant toxoid proteins or an immunologic fragment or variant thereof including P480W N500I V471R K473C P480W N5001 double mutant V471R K473C double mutant and V471R K473C P480W triple mutant or immunologic fragments or variants thereof and to other purified toxoids described herein including purified recombinant forms . Other embodiments include recombinant purified VLY protein or toxoids that have a 6 His tag on both the N terminus beginning and C terminus end of the protein to maximize purification. The tags can be removed after the VLY protein or toxoids are isolated and purified.

Other embodiments are directed to a composition comprising any of these toxoids or an immunologic fragment or variant thereof for example to be used as immunogens in vaccines. Other embodiments are directed to a method for generating an immunologic response to VLY in an animal by administering to a patient a composition that includes one or more VLY toxoids such as the VLY P480W toxoid or an immunologic fragment or variant thereof.

Recombinant purified VLY toxin generated and purified as described in the Examples was submitted to Cocalico Biologicals Inc. Reamstown Pa. . According to their protocol adult rabbits were injected with a minimum of 100 g antigen mixed with Complete Freund s Adjuvant subcutaneous and or intramuscularly at multiple sites. Booster doses containing a minimum of 50 g antigen mixed with Incomplete Freund s Adjuvant were administered on days 14 21 and 49. A test bleed was performed on day 56. Prior to the first immunization serum was collected from each rabbit to serve as negative control. We named the new anti VLY polyclonal antibody thus derived polyAnti VLY certain embodiments of the invention are directed to this antibody and its therapeutic use to treat infections and BV and to prevent transmission of HIV to another from a woman infected with or having BV.

Western blot analysis of lysed 14018 revealed a single band using polyclonal immune serum polyAnti VLY as the primary antibody . This corresponds to the predicted 57 kDa molecular mass of VLY and to our prior findings using cross reacting anti pneumolysin antibody 50 . There were no visible bands detected on membranes probed with pre immune serum and processed identically data not shown . Immunofluorescent detection of VLY associated with whole was detected microscopically using immune serum and fluorescently labeled anti rabbit secondary antibodies . Preimmune serum did not lead to detectable fluorescence of .

Certain embodiments of the present invention are directed to the new rabbit polyAnti VLY antibody and fragments and variants thereof and to compositions that include the antibody that are intended for use in a mammal particularly a human. Other embodiments are directed generally to polyclonal antibodies to VLY made by immunizing an animal with the isolated recombinant VLY toxins or a VLY toxoid as herein described or an immunologically active fragment or variant thereof. Anti VLY antibodies will bind to free VLY in the body. Other embodiments are directed to monoclonal anti VLY antibodies made using well known hybridoma technology. In certain embodiments the anti VLY antibodies can be humanized as antibody or antibody fragments and then administered therapeutically to a patient to confer passive immunity to or BV or to neutralize VLY either systemically or locally in the vagina to prevent it from binding to CD 59. The antibodies can also be used in ELISA or RIA assays to detect the presence of VLY in a biological sample from a patient as is described below.

We developed a sandwich ELISA assay capable of quantifying VLY at ng ml concentrations in the supernatant of growing using rabbit polyAnti VLY diluted 1 1000 in blocking solution as the detection antibody and known concentrations of recombinant VLY toxin diluted in culture medium as a standard. As a secondary antibody we used goat anti rabbit HRP antibody 1 100 dilution . We found that VLY toxin production peaked at between 24 and 36 hours of in culture and directly correlated with bacterial concentration as determined by optical density B . The ELISA technique is robust even in the setting of potential inhibitors such as serum and will be useful for quantifying VLY production both in vitro and in vivo. The ELISA based assay in particular is sensitive robust and directly correlates with the concentration of reported to be an independent predictor of BV and subsequent preterm delivery. 61 65 

As an alternative means to assess VLY regulation we also developed a sensitive real time PCR assay targeting the VLY gene. This assay which can be used either to detect DNA from organisms with the toxin gene or to monitor VLY RNA levels during different growth conditions represents an important strategy for our continued investigations.

Certain embodiments of the invention are directed to a kit for detecting VLY toxin or fragment that includes an anti VLY antibody including rabbit polyAnti VLY as the detection antibody or anti pneumolysin antibody anti PLY antibody anti ILY antibody or any other antibody that cross reacts with VLY. Such a kit can be used as a diagnostic tool for infections and bacterial vaginosis by testing the presence of VLY in a biological sample from a patient. The biological sample is preferably a vaginal swab that has been diluted in sterile saline or PBS before the assay is run. It is expected that the swab will have not only vaginal cells but also free VLY toxin. Another sample can be obtained by instilling 1 5 ml sterile saline into the vaginal of patient and then collecting a biological sample from the vagina for the assay.

An embodiment of a kit for a sandwich ELISA optionally includes a secondary antibody specific for the detection antibody conjugated to an enzyme or other compound known in the art including fluorescent labels biotin avidin radiolabels that permits detection of the binding of the secondary antibody to the detection antibody.

In one embodiment the rabbit polyAnti VLY is conjugated to an enzyme for an indirect assay. A major disadvantage of the indirect ELISA is that the method of antigen immobilization is non specific any proteins in the sample will stick to the microtiter plate well so small concentrations of analyte in serum must compete with other serum proteins when binding to the well surface. The sandwich ELISA provides a solution to this problem 1 Plate is coated with a capture antibody 2 sample is added and any antigen present binds to capture antibody 3 detecting antibody is added and binds to antigen 4 enzyme linked secondary antibody is added and binds to detecting antibody 5 substrate is added and is converted by enzyme to detectable form.

In yet another embodiment the kit includes a capture antibody that binds VLY toxin to the substrate thereby preventing nonspecific binding of peptides or proteins in the sample. The capture antibody can be anti penumolysin antibody that we used such as clone 1F11 or other clones that cross reacts with VLY or soluble CD59 anti VLY antibodies including polyAnti VLY anti PLY antibody anti pneumolysin or monoclonal anti VLY.

An ELISA may be run in a qualitative or quantitative format. Qualitative results provide a simple positive or negative result for a sample. The cutoff between positive and negative is determined by the analyst and may be statistical. Two or three times the standard deviation is often used to distinguish positive and negative samples. In quantitative ELISA the optical density or fluorescent units of the sample is interpolated into a standard curve which is typically a serial dilution of the target.

To test the biological activity of our antiserum to VLY we studied toxin mediated cytolysis of human erythrocytes which are susceptible to hemolysis at various concentrations of purified recombinant VLY for 30 minutes . Pre incubation of VLY with polyAnti VLY immune serum 1 50 dilution prior to exposure to human erythrocytes resulted in significantly less hemolysis compared to untreated cells or cells exposed to pre immune serum treated VLY Inhibition of VLY mediated lysis by immune serum was dose dependent .

Similarly VLY mediated cell lysis of human epithelial cell lines HeLa and VK2 was markedly reduced in the setting of immune serum. In order to generate a probe for toxin hCD59 interactions we created a GFP VLYD4 fusion protein not shown . This protein binds to hCD59 expressing human epithelial cells but does not form pores. It also can be used therapeutically to treat BV or infections.

The results above show that anti VLY antibodies in general and polyAnti VLY in particular can be used therapeutically to treat infections by neutralizing free VLY. Such antibodies can be administered locally in the vagina as a topical formulation or systemically. When the anti VLY antibodies are administered locally topically to the vagina It is expected that the disadvantages of using rabbit antibodies instead of human antibodies is minimized.

New compositions that come within the scope of the invention for treating BV or infections or for preventing transmission of HIV from a BV HIV infected woman include 

BV has been repeatedly associated with both a significant risk of HIV acquisition and increased viral shedding among those already infected 43 45. In vitro treatment of HIV infected cells with leads to increased production of viral transcripts. 179 924353 525 and 1190 3896 incorporated herein by reference. Treatment of HIV infected U 1 cells with purified VLY toxin in vitro caused a significant increase in HIV transcripts and p24 release. Unpublished observations . Therefore treatment or prevention of BV in women will also greatly reduce their susceptibility to becoming infected with HIV. An embodiment of the invention is directed to methods for reducing or preventing the transmission of HIV by a woman infected with both HIV and BV to another through intercourse by administering to the woman before she engages in a sexual activity a therapeutically effective amount of a composition comprising a protective agent as described herein. In one embodiment the agent is applied topically to the vagina of the infected woman before engaging in the sexual activity. Vagina and birth canal are used synonymously herein.

The woman can be treated either topically or systemically or both. The protective agent s bind to VLY or bind to CD59 receptor on target cells blocking the binding of VLY. In one embodiment VLY toxoids as described herein bind to CD59 thereby preventing the toxin VLY from binding and lysing cells. Without being bound by theory we speculate that the protective agent neutralizes VLY produced from infected cells thereby preventing it from binding to CD59 receptor on HIV infected cells this prevents VLY from increasing viral shedding by HIV infected cells which in turn reduces the risk of HIV infection to the uninfected sexual partner. A therapeutically effective amount of the protective agent is an amount that reduces or prevents transmission of HIV preferably by reducing shedding by HIV infected cells thereby reducing the viral load of HIV in a biological sample taken from the birth canal of the woman. A therapeutically effective amount that reduces viral load in a biological sample can be determined using routine experimentation.

Approximately 7 000 human immunodeficiency virus HIV infected women give birth in the United States each year. This number is many times higher in Africa. Without treatment about one fourth of them transmit the virus to their children. The anti HIV drug zidovudine AZT given to HIV infected pregnant women before and during childbirth and to their infants after childbirth reduces HIV transmission by as much as two thirds. Treatment with AZT is now the standard of care in the U.S. for preventing HIV infection in infants. However additional means are needed for the prevention of maternal to fetal transmission of HIV and other enveloped viruses both in the U.S. and worldwide. We have discovered compositions and methods that reduce the risk of a woman who is both HIV and BV positive transmitting HIV to an unborn fetus during the birth process.

One embodiment of the invention is directed to a method of reducing maternal to fetal transmission of HIV where the pregnant woman is infected with both HIV and BV by administering a therapeutically effective amount of a protective agent either topically or systemically or both especially before and during a vaginal birth. Treatment of the pregnant HIV and BV infected individual should begin as soon as she is identified to reduce the viral load in the peripheral blood of the woman to both treat the BV and reduce the risk of the fetus becoming infected with HIV either before or during the birth.

When birth is approaching treatment should be undertaken during labor until birth with repeated topical application. Routine experimentation will determine the optimum schedule of administration. A therapeutically effective amount includes an amount that reduces or eliminates free HIV virus in a biological sample from the pregnant woman such as a blood sample or a sample of vaginal secretion.

In another embodiment for preventing transmission of BV or HIV to a newborn the preventative agent is administered topically to the newborn immediately after birth for example to an exposed tissue of the newborn such as the umbilical cord. The application of the preventive agent directly to the newborn can contribute to the reduction or elimination of a HIV viral particles that may be shed by any HIV infected cells that remain from maternal derived biological material on the newborn.

The methods described herein to reduce or prevent maternal to fetal transmission of an enveloped virus can be used in combination with one or more known treatments of HIV or BV including using antiviral agents or antibacterial agents

 Antibody or antibodies as described herein include intact molecules as well as fragments thereof that are capable of binding to an epitope of a VLY polypeptide or VLY toxoid as described herein to a fragment or variant thereof. The term epitope refers to an antigenic determinant on an antigen to which an antibody binds. Epitopes usually consist of chemically active surface groupings of molecules such as amino acids or sugar side chains and typically have specific three dimensional structural characteristics as well as specific charge characteristics. Epitopes generally have at least five contiguous amino acids. The terms antibody and antibodies include polyclonal antibodies monoclonal antibodies humanized or chimeric antibodies single chain Fv antibody fragments Fab fragments and F ab fragments. Polyclonal antibodies are heterogeneous populations of antibody molecules that are specific for a particular antigen while monoclonal antibodies are homogeneous populations of antibodies to a particular epitope contained within an antigen. Monoclonal antibodies are particularly useful.

The term specifically binds as used herein refers to the situation in which one member of a specific binding pair does not significantly bind to molecules other than its specific binding partner s as measured by a technique available in the art e.g. competition ELISA. The term is also applicable where e.g. an antigen binding domain of an antibody of the invention is specific for a particular epitope that is carried by a number of antigens for example by VLY or fragment thereof such as domain 4 and the undecapeptide or a VLY toxoid in which case the antibody carrying the antigen binding domain will be able to specifically bind to the various antigens carrying the epitope. The term epitope refers to that portion of a molecule capable of being recognized by and bound by an antibody at one or more of the antibody s antigen binding regions.

 Specific binding of an antibody also means that the antibody exhibits appreciable affinity for antigen or a preferred epitope and preferably does not exhibit significant crossreactivity. Appreciable or preferred binding include binding with an affinity of at least 10 10 10 10M or 10M. Affinities greater than 10M preferably greater than 10Mare more preferred. Values intermediate of those set forth herein are also intended to be within the scope of the present invention and a preferred binding affinity can be indicated as a range of affinities.

Antibody fragments that have specific binding affinity as defined below for VLY polypeptides can be generated by known techniques. Such antibody fragments include but are not limited to F ab fragments that can be produced by pepsin digestion of an antibody molecule and Fab fragments that can be generated by deducing the disulfide bridges of F ab fragments. Alternatively Fab expression libraries can be constructed. See for example Huse et al. 1989 Science 246 1275 1281. Single chain Fv antibody fragments are formed by linking the heavy and light chain fragments of the Fv region via an amino acid bridge e.g. 15 to 18 amino acids resulting in a single chain polypeptide. Single chain Fv antibody fragments can be produced through standard techniques such as those disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4 946 778.

Once produced antibodies or fragments thereof can be tested for recognition of a VLY polypeptide or toxoid by standard immunoassay methods including for example enzyme linked immunosorbent assay ELISA or radioimmunoassay assay RIA . See Short Protocols in Molecular Biology eds. Ausubel et al. Green Publishing Associates and John Wiley Sons 1992 . Suitable antibodies typically have equal binding affinities for recombinant and native proteins.

An antibody refers to an intact immunoglobulin or to an antigen binding portion thereof that competes with the intact antibody for specific binding. Antigen binding portions may be produced by recombinant DNA techniques or by enzymatic or chemical cleavage of intact antibodies. Antigen binding portions include inter alia Fab Fab F ab .sub.2 Fv dAb and complementarity determining region CDR fragments single chain antibodies scFv chimeric antibodies diabodies and polypeptides that contain at least a portion of an immunoglobulin that is sufficient to confer specific antigen binding to the polypeptide. An immunoglobulin is a tetrameric molecule. In a naturally occurring immunoglobulin each tetramer is composed of two identical pairs of polypeptide chains each pair having one light about 25 kDa and one heavy chain about 50 70 kDa . The amino terminal portion of each chain includes a variable region of about 100 to 110 or more amino acids primarily responsible for antigen recognition. The carboxy terminal portion of each chain defines a constant region primarily responsible for effector function.

The monoclonal antibodies for use in the invention may be obtained by any technique which provides for the production of antibody molecules by continuous cell lines in culture. These include but are not limited to the hybridoma technique of Kohler and Milstein 1975 Nature 256 495 497 and U.S. Pat. No. 4 376 110 the human B cell hybridoma technique Kosbor et al. 1983 Immunology Today 4 72 Cole et al. 1983 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 80 2026 2030 and the EBV hybridoma technique Cole et al. 1985 Monoclonal Antibodies And Cancer Therapy Alan R. Liss Inc. pp. 77 96 . Such antibodies may be of any immunoglobulin class including IgG IgM IgE IgA IgD and any subclasses thereof. The hybridoma producing the mAb may be cultivated in vitro or in vivo.

Human light chains are classified as kappa and lambda light chains. Heavy chains are classified as mu DELTA gamma alpha or epsilon and define the antibody s isotype as IgM IgD IgG IgA and IgE respectively. Within light and heavy chains the variable and constant regions are joined by a J region of about 12 or more amino acids with the heavy chain also including a D region of about 10 more amino acids. See generally Fundamental Immunology Ch. 7 Paul W. ed. 2nd ed. Raven Press N.Y. 1989 incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes . The variable regions of each light heavy chain pair form the antibody binding site such that an intact immunoglobulin has two binding sites. Immunoglobulin chains exhibit the same general structure of relatively conserved framework regions FR joined by three hypervariable regions also called complementarity determining regions or CDRs. The CDRs from the two chains of each pair are aligned by the framework regions enabling binding to a specific epitope. From N terminus to C terminus both light and heavy chains comprise the domains FR1 CDR1 FR2 CDR2 FR3 CDR3 and FR4. The assignment of amino acids to each domain is in accordance 44 with the definitions of Kabat Sequences of Proteins of Immunological Interest National Institutes of Health Bethesda Md. 1987 and 1991 or Chothia Lesk J. Mol. Biol. 196 901 917 1987 Chothia et al. Nature 342 878 883 1989 .

An Fab fragment is a monovalent fragment consisting of the VL VH CL and CH I domains a F ab .sub.2 fragment is a bivalent fragment comprising two Fab fragments linked by a disulfide bridge at the hinge region a Fd fragment consists of the VH and CH1 domains an Fv fragment consists of the VL and VH domains of a single arm of an antibody and a dAb fragment Ward et al. Nature 341 544 546 1989 consists of a VH domain. A single chain antibody scFv is an antibody in which a VL and VH regions are paired to form a monovalent molecules via a synthetic linker that enables them to be made as a single protein chain Bird et al. Science 242 423 426 1988 and Huston et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 85 58795883 1988 . Diabodies are bivalent bispecific antibodies in which VH and VL domains are expressed on a single polypeptide chain but using a linker that is too short to allow for pairing between the two domains on the same chain thereby forcing the domains to pair with complementary domains of another chain and creating two antigen binding sites see e.g. Holliger P. et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 90 6444 6448 1993 and Poljak R. J. et al. Structure 2 1121 1123 1994 . One or more CDRs may be incorporated into a molecule either covalently or noncovalently to make it an immunoadhesin. An immunoadhesin may incorporate the CDR s as part of a larger polypeptide chain may covalently link the CDR s to another polypeptide chain or may incorporate the CDR s noncovalently. The CDRs permit the immunoadhesin to specifically bind to a particular antigen of interest.

An antibody may have one or more binding sites. If there is more than one binding site the binding sites may be identical to one another or may be different. For instance a naturally occurring immunoglobulin has two identical binding sites a single chain antibody or Fab fragment has one binding site while a bispecific or bifunctional antibody has two different binding sites. An isolated antibody is an antibody that 1 is not associated with naturally associated components including other naturally associated antibodies that accompany it in its native state 2 is free of other proteins from the same species 3 is expressed by a cell from a different species or 4 does not occur in nature.

The term human antibody includes all antibodies that have one or more variable and constant regions derived from human immunoglobulin sequences. In a preferred embodiment all of the variable and constant domains are derived from human immunoglobulin sequences a fully human antibody . These antibodies may be prepared in a variety of ways as described below.

A humanized antibody is an antibody that is derived from a non human species in which certain amino acids in the framework and constant domains of the heavy and light chains have been mutated so as to avoid or abrogate an immune response in humans. Alternatively a humanized antibody may be produced by fusing the constant domains from a human antibody to the variable domains of a non human species. Examples of how to make humanized antibodies may be found in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 054 297 5 886 152 and 5 877 293 incorporated herein by reference.

The term chimeric antibody refers to an antibody that contains one or more regions from one antibody and one or more regions from one or more other antibodies. Fragments or analogs of antibodies can be readily prepared by those of ordinary skill in the art following the teachings of this specification. Preferred amino and carboxy termini of fragments or analogs occur near boundaries of functional domains. Structural and functional domains can be identified by comparison of the nucleotide and or amino acid sequence data to public or proprietary sequence databases. Preferably computerized comparison methods are used to identify sequence motifs or predicted protein conformation domains that occur in other proteins of known structure and or function. Methods to identify protein sequences that fold into a known three dimensional structure are known. Bowie et al. Science 253 164 1991 .

The present invention also includes pharmaceutical compositions and formulations of the protective agents described herein. Pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention contain the therapeutic agent in an amount sufficient to prevent or treat the diseases described herein in a subject. These pharmaceutical compositions are suitable for administration to a subject in need of prophylaxis or therapy for any of the described diseases or conditions. The subject is preferably a human but can be non human as well. A suitable subject can be an individual who is suspected of having has been diagnosed as having or is at risk of developing one of the described diseases.

In some embodiments the protective agent is formulated in a lubricant as described in Porat U.S. Pat. No. 624 198 incorporated herein by reference for intra vaginal application or application to a newborn baby. In a preferred embodiment the lubricant protective agent composition has a natural pH corresponding to that of the vagina. The lubricant may be any effective lubricant or combination of lubricants acceptable for cosmetic applications. Medical and pharmaceutical studies have shown that HIV develops mainly in the blood cells and is carried by various body fluids to other cells. The lubricant reduces the friction between the penis and the vaginal wall thus reducing the rupture of blood cells which might otherwise occur and therefore reducing the amount of blood that is commingled. The protective agents of the present invention can also be formulated into gels and foams for application before or during sexual intercourse that are known in the art. In some embodiments the protective anti shedding agents of the invention are included in disinfectant foam that coats the walls of the vagina and temporarily forms a closed layer of foam that traps and kills any HIV virus that may be present in addition to reducing or preventing further shedding. Schmittmann et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 022 545 incorporated herein by reference.

The preventive agent can be formulated into any topical composition known in the art that is suitable for its intended use as described herein including creams lotions ointments gels lubricants liquids sprays powders or absorbent materials. The preventative agents can also be formulated for systemic administration for treating or preventing or BV or for use as a vaccine or for reducing shedding in HIV BV infected women as described herein. A composition of the preventive agents for either topical or systemic administration can also include a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. As used herein the language pharmaceutically acceptable carrier includes solvents dispersion media coatings antiviral agents antibacterial agents antifungal agents isotonic and absorption delaying agents and the like compatible with pharmaceutical administration. Supplementary active compounds can also be incorporated into the compositions. Other topical formulations for preventing or reducing HIV transmission during birth are described in Sheele et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 151 091 which is incorporated herein by reference.

Therapeutic compositions may contain for example such normally employed additives as binders fillers carriers preservatives stabilizing agents emulsifiers buffers and excipients as for example pharmaceutical grades of mannitol lactose starch magnesium stearate sodium saccharin cellulose magnesium carbonate and the like. These compositions typically contain 1 95 of active ingredient preferably 2 70 active ingredient.

The protective agents can also be mixed with diluents or excipients which are compatible and physiologically tolerable. Suitable diluents and excipients are for example water saline dextrose glycerol or the like and combinations thereof. In addition if desired the compositions may contain minor amounts of auxiliary substances such as wetting or emulsifying agents stabilizing or pH buffering agents.

In some embodiments the therapeutic compositions of the present invention are prepared either as liquid solutions or suspensions as sprays or in solid forms. Oral formulations usually include such normally employed additives such as binders fillers carriers preservatives stabilizing agents emulsifiers buffers and excipients as for example pharmaceutical grades of mannitol lactose starch magnesium stearate sodium saccharin cellulose magnesium carbonate and the like. These compositions take the form of solutions suspensions tablets pills capsules sustained release formulations or powders and typically contain 1 95 of active ingredient preferably 2 70 . One example of an oral composition useful for delivering the therapeutic compositions of the present invention is described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 643 602 incorporated herein by reference .

Additional formulations which are suitable for other modes of administration such as topical administration include salves tinctures creams lotions pessary transdermal patches ointments gels lubricants liquid sprays powders absorbent materials and suppositories. For salves and creams traditional binders carriers and excipients may include for example polyalkylene glycols or triglycerides. One example of a topical delivery method is described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 834 016 incorporated herein by reference . Other liposomal delivery methods may also be employed See e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 851 548 and 5 711 964 both of which are herein incorporated by reference . The composition can include an inert carrier. The composition can be impregnated in a towlette sponge or capsule.

The formulations may also contain more than one active compound as necessary for the particular indication being treated preferably those with complementary activities that do not adversely affect each other. Such molecules are suitably present in combination in amounts that are effective for the purpose intended.

Sustained release preparations may also be prepared. Suitable examples of sustained release preparations include semipermeable matrices of solid hydrophobic polymers containing the protective agents which matrices are in the form of shaped articles e.g. films or microcapsule. Examples of sustained release matrices include but are not limited to polyesters hydro gels for example poly 2 hydroxyethyl methacrylate or poly vinylalcohol polylactides copolymers of L glutamic acid and y ethyl L glutamate non degradable ethylene vinyl acetate degradable lactic acid glycolic acid copolymers such as the LUPRON DEPOT injectable micro spheres composed of lactic acid glycolic acid copolymer and leuprolide acetate and poly D 3 hydroxybutyric acid. While polymers such as ethylene vinyl acetate and lactic acid glycolic acid enable release of molecules for over 100 days certain hydrogels release proteins for shorter time periods.

The protective agents of the present invention may be administered by any suitable means preferably topically in the birth canal but also including systemic routes such as parenteral and subcutaneous. Parenteral infusions include intramuscular intravenous intra arterial intra peritoneal or subcutaneous administration.

For the prevention or treatment of disease the appropriate dosage of antibody or other protective agent will depend on the type of disease to be treated the severity and course of the disease whether the drug is administered for protective or therapeutic purposes previous therapy the patient s clinical history and response to the drugs and the discretion of the attending physician.

The protective agents and vaccines are suitably administered to the patient at one time or over a series of treatments.

The amount of antibody to be administered therapeutically ranges typically from about 1 ug to 100 ug ml. This amount typically varies and depends on the route of administration. The therapeutic agents of the invention can be administered by one or more separate administrations topical or systemic administration or by continuous infusion. For repeated administrations over several days or longer depending on the condition the treatment is sustained until the symptoms of or BV are sufficiently reduced or eliminated or until the HIV viral load is reduced in women with HIV and BV. The progress of this therapy is easily monitored by conventional techniques and assays and may be used to adjust dosage to achieve a therapeutic effect.

VLY protein and toxoids and their biologically active analogs derivatives fragments and variants for use in the present invention can be modified according to known methods in medicinal chemistry to increase its stability half life uptake or efficacy. Certain known modifications are described below.

As is also well known polypeptides are not always entirely linear. For instance polypeptides may be branched as a result of ubiquitination and they may be circular with or without branching generally as a result of post translation events including natural processing events and events brought about by human manipulation which do not occur naturally. Circular branched and branched circular polypeptides may be synthesized by non translational natural processes and by synthetic methods.

Modifications can occur anywhere in a polypeptide including the peptide backbone the amino acid side chains and the amino or carboxyl termini. Blockage of the amino or carboxyl group in a polypeptide or both by a covalent modification is common in naturally occurring and synthetic polypeptides. For instance the amino terminal residue of polypeptides made in prior to proteolytic processing almost invariably will be N formylmethionine.

The modifications can be a function of how the protein is made. For recombinant polypeptides for example the modifications will be determined by the host cell posttranslational modification capacity and the modification signals in the polypeptide amino acid sequence. Accordingly when glycosylation is desired a polypeptide should be expressed in a glycosylating host generally a eukaryotic cell. Insect cells often carry out the same posttranslational glycosylations as mammalian cells and for this reason insect cell expression systems have been developed to efficiently express mammalian proteins having native patterns of glycosylation. Similar considerations apply to other modifications. The same type of modification may be present in the same or varying degree at several sites in a given polypeptide. Also a given polypeptide may contain more than one type of modification.

VLY protein and toxoids can be isolated and purified from cells that naturally express it purified from cells that naturally express it but have been modified to overproduce it e.g. purified from cells that have been altered to express it recombinantly synthesized using known protein synthesis methods or by modifying cells that naturally encode VLY or VLY toxoid to express it.

In the foregoing specification the invention has been described with reference to specific embodiments thereof. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

The invention is illustrated herein by the experiments described above and by the following examples which should not be construed as limiting. The contents of all references pending patent applications and published patents cited throughout this application are hereby expressly incorporated by reference. Those skilled in the art will understand that this invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will fully convey the invention to those skilled in the art. Many modifications and other embodiments of the invention will come to mind in one skilled in the art to which this invention pertains having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing description. Although specific terms are employed they are used as in the art unless otherwise indicated.

Human cervical endothelial cells HeLa ATCC CCL 2 were grown at 37 C. and 5 COin minimal essential medium Invitrogen supplemented with 10 fetal bovine serum and 10 g ml ciprofloxacin. Human vaginal endothelial cells VK2 ATCC CRL 2616 were grown in serum free keratinocyte growth media Invitrogen with 0.1 ng ml EGF 0.05 mg ml bovine pituitary extract and 0.4 mM calcium chloride Biol Reprod 1997 October 57 4 847 55 Generation of papillomavirus immortalized cell lines from normal human ectocervical endocervical and vaginal epithelium that maintain expression of tissue specific differentiation proteins Fichorova R N Rheinwald J G Anderson D J .

The genomic region containing VLY was amplified from 14018 by PCR using Pfx proofreading polymerase Invitrogen and primers V1 ATGCAGCGAAGCATGCCATGC SEQ ID NO 19 and V2 TCAGTCGTTCTTTACAGTTTC SEQ ID NO 20 . This PCR product was cloned into vector pCR2.1 TOPO Invitrogen and transformed into TOP10 according to the manufacturer s instructions. 50 The insert was bidirectionally sequenced using vector specific primers. The predicted VLY open reading frame was amplified by PCR using the cloned genomic region as template Pfx polymerase and primers V3 GCCGCCGCCAAGAGTACAAAG SEQ ID NO 21 and V6 GCCTCAGTCGTTCTTTACAGT SEQ ID NO 22 adding unique restriction sites indicated by underlining. The resulting product was cut with restriction enzymes NdeI and BamHI cloned into the vector pET28a Novagen to generate a construct with an N terminal hexahistidine transcriptional fusion and confirmed by sequencing. Site directed mutagenesis to construct pET28a VLY P480W was performed with the QuikChange II XL kit Stratagene according to the manufacturer s instructions. Mutagenic primers used were P480W sense TGGTTGAAAAGACTGGTTTGGTTTGGGAATGGTGGCGCACAGTATAT SEQ ID NO and P480W anti ATATACTGTGCGCCACCATTCCCAAACCAAACCAGTCTTTTCAACCA SEQ ID NO 24.

Improved purity and greater yield were achieved by generating a truncated construct excluding the first 50 amino acids from the N terminal region using the primer VLY50 up 5 GCCGCCCATATGTCGTTGAATAATTATTTGTGG 3 SEQ ID NO 25 along with the previously described V6 primer. The PCR product was cloned into the pET28a vector Novagen confirmed by sequencing and transformed into BL21 AI competent cells Invitrogen for expression and purification as previously described. The lytic activity of this truncated recombinant toxoid was unaltered data not shown . The DNA sequence encoding VLY protein is set forth in SEQ ID NO 1 for strains 14018 an 14019 the amino acid sequence encoding VLY protein is set forth in SEQ ID NO 2.

Protein sequence prediction alignment and phylogenetic analyses were performed using MacVector software Version 9.5 MacVector Inc. . Protein sequences for other CDC family members Appendix were obtained from the Comprehensive Microbial Resource J. Craig Venter Institute http cmr.tigr.org or from the GenBank Entrez Protein database National Center for Biotechnology Information .

The coding sequence of the pneumolysin gene was amplified by PCR using primers NdeI Ply up GGAATTCGCAAATAAAGCAG SEQ ID NO 26 and Ply down XhoI CCGGTCATTTTCTACCTTATC SEQ ID NO 27 using genomic DNA of strain TIGR4 as a template. These primers added unique restriction sites as indicated by underlining and led to amplification of the entire pneumolysin sequence omitting the stop codon to allow addition of a C terminal hexahistidine taG. The product was confirmed by sequencing digested with NdeI and XhoI New England Biolabs and cloned into pET29a Novagen cut with NdeI and XhoI. The plasmid was transformed into BL21 AI and induction and purification were performed as for VLY. Site directed mutagenesis used primers W435P sense ACCGGGCTTGCCTGGGAACCGTGGCGTACG SEQ ID NO 28 and W435 P anti CGTACGCCACGGTTCCCAGGCAAGCCCGGT SEQ ID NO 29 .

The use of human erythrocytes was approved by the Columbia University Institutional Review Board. Human blood was obtained by venipuncture and erythrocytes immediately isolated by centrifugation and repeated washing in sterile PBS. For human samples a 1 solution of packed erythrocytes in sterile PBS was prepared and added to a 96 well polystyrene V bottomed plate 100 l well . Blood from other species tested was obtained commercially Fisher Scientific and erythrocytes washed in sterile PBS prior to use. A 1 solution of packed erythrocytes in sterile PBS was combined with an equal volume of toxin diluted in PBS. The total volume for the assay was 200 l per well of a 96 well polystyrene V bottom plate. The negative control for lysis consisted of PBS without toxin added to erythrocytes and the positive control for 100 lysis was 0.05 Triton X 100. Incubation was for 30 min at 37 C. 5 CO. At the conclusion of the assay the plates were spun at 2000 rpm to pellet erythrocytes and supernatants removed for measurement of optical density at 415 nm. Where noted toxins were preincubated with cholesterol stock solution 100 mg ml in chloroform working concentration 1 10 g ml or control chloroform alone at the corresponding dilution for 10 min at room temperature prior to use in the assay. Antibody inhibition experiments were performed using anti CD55 clone IA10 BD Pharmingen anti CD59 clone YTH53.1 GeneTex or irrelevant antibody control. Preincubation of erythrocytes with antibody 9 ng ml final concentration was for 1 hr at 4 C. with constant rotation followed by two PBS washes to remove unbound antibody prior to use in the assay.

The coding sequence for human CD59 was amplified from cDNA from A549 CCL 185 respiratory epithelial cells using primers CD59 1 GCCGCCCCACCAATGGGAATCCAAGGAG SEQ ID NO 30 and CD59 2 GCCGCCTTAGGGATGAAGGCTCCAGGC SEQ ID NO 31 and cloned into the XhoI and EcoRI sites of pIRES2 EGFP Clontech . Sequence was confirmed using vector specific primers. CHO K1 cells were transfected with purified plasmid DNA either pIRES2 EGFP CD59 or the corresponding empty vector control using a Nucleofector Amaxa according to the manufacturer s instructions. Transfected cells were plated into 6 well dishes and used 48 hr after transfection. Greater than 90 transfection efficiency was assessed by fluorescence microscopy data not shown . Cells were weaned from serum overnight and stimulated with VLY or pneumolysin diluted in serum free F12 media for 30 min at 37 C. 5 CO. Cell viability was confirmed at the end of the experiment by visual inspection of the monolayer and trypan blue exclusion and exceeded 90 . The positive control for complete lysis was 1 Triton X 100 in serum free F12. The concentration of lactate dehydrogenase in supernatants was assessed with a commercial kit Roche according to the manufacturer s instructions.

Western blot analysis of epithelial p38 MAPK phosphorylation was performed as previously described 32 .

HeLa cells were weaned from serum overnight and treated for 2 hr with medium alone VLY 10 g ml or VLY P480W 10 g ml . Cells were lysed in RLT buffer Qiagen and RNA purified using a commercially available kit RNeasy Plus Qiagen . Reverse transcription of 1.5 g of RNA per sample to generate cDNA was with the high capacity cDNA kit Applied Biosystems . Real time PCR Applied Biosystems StepOne with SYBR green detection PowerSYBR Applied Biosystems was performed using primers for interleukin 8 TACTCCAAACCTTTCCAACCC SEQ ID NO 32 and AACTTCTCCACAACCCTCTG SEQ ID NO 33 and GAPDH GGGCGCCTGGTCACCAGGGCTG SEQ ID NO 34 and GGGGCCATCCACAGTCTTCTG SEQ ID NO 35 . Relative quantitation used the Cmethod with normalization to GAPDH.

Purified VLY toxin was generated and submitted to Cocalico Biologicals Inc. Reamstown Pa. . According to their protocol adult rabbits were injected with a minimum of 100 g antigen mixed with Complete Freund s Adjuvant subcutaneous and or intramuscularly at multiple sites. Booster doses containing a minimum of 50 g antigen mixed with Incomplete Freund s Adjuvant were administered on days 14 21 and 49. A test bleed was performed on day 56. Prior to the first immunization serum was collected from each rabbit to serve as negative control.

Four strains of 14018 14019 49145 and ARG3 were grown on HBT plates colonies were scraped and inoculated into 30 ml of liquid media. A 500 l aliquot of each culture was obtained every 6 hours for determination of OD. An additional 1 ml sample from each was pelleted by centrifugation and supernatant stored at 20 C. prior to ELISA.

Immuno 96 MicroWell plates Nunc were coated with anti pneumolysin antibody clone 1F11 previously shown to cross react with VLY diluted 1 500 in coating buffer 0.1 M sodium carbonate pH 9.5 and incubated at 4 C. overnight. Wells were washed with PBS and 0.05 Tween 20. Non specific binding sites were blocked using PBS with 10 fetal bovine serum for 1 h. Supernatants 100 l were added to each well and plates were incubated at room temperature for 2 h. Known concentrations of recombinant VLY toxin diluted in culture media were used as standards. Rabbit polyclonal anti VLY antiserum diluted 1 1000 in blocking solution was added to each well for 30 min at room temperature. After washing goat anti rabbit HRP antibody Santa Cruz biotechnology Inc. 1 1000 dilution was added for 30 min. Wells were thoroughly washed and 100 l of TMB substrate Thermo Scientific was added to each well and plate was incubated in the dark for 15 min. 50 l of stop solution 2N sulfuric acid was added to each well and ODdetermined.

24 well plates were seeded with VK2 or HeLa human epithelial cells in appropriate media and grown to 90 confluence. 12 hours prior to use HeLa cells were weaned from serum. Recombinant VLY toxin diluted in media 10 g ml or vehicle control was added to each well. Where indicated toxin was preincubated with pre immune or immune sera for 30 min at 4 C. prior to use in the assay. The plates were incubated for 45 min at 37 C. and 5 CO. Supernatant was removed and the concentration of lactate dehydrogenase was determined using a commercial kit Roche per the manufacturer s instructions.

Statistical comparisons were performed using two tailed unpaired t tests or one way analysis of variance ANOVA with Tukey post test as appropriate Prism GraphPad Software .

The sequence data for the genome for strains 14018 14019 and 49145 are available in GenBank under the accession numbers EU522486 EU522488.

Consistent with these findings the hCD59 binding site has been localized to this domain for ILY 22 and for VLY renumber . Using overlap extension PCR we generated a toxin chimera containing domains 1 3 of VLY and domain 4 of PLY a species non selective CDC . Unlike the parent VLY the chimera lysed human and non human erythrocytes with equal efficacy and does not require hCD59 for CHO cell lysis . This indicates that D4 plays a major role in species selectivity among the CDCs. In order to generate a probe for toxin hCD59 interactions we created a GFP VLYD4 fusion protein . This protein binds to hCD59 expressing human epithelial cells but does not form pores . Thus this protein will be an invaluable tool for studies delineating requirements for binding between D4 and hCD59.

