---

title: Total abs office chair
abstract: An article of furniture suitable for sitting comprising of a seat, a hinging and lowering seatback, and a coaster wheeled pedestal base with a means of securing human feet; whereby providing its user with a fast, convenient, and safe means of seating, stretching, exercising, and laying flat to rest without the article of furniture having to be laboriously manipulated.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08696534&OS=08696534&RS=08696534
owner: 
number: 08696534
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20090619
---
The disadvantage of Smith s patent application 259 for his chair is that the base has no means to secure human feet. Smith s patent application 259 has an optional hub attachable footrest assembly that has retracting means that may also be used for leg press exercises. Smith s patent application 259 does not allow for the backrest itself to hinge in two to allow the user a broader range of abdominal exercises. Smith s patent application 259 does not allow for the backrest to be completely lowered to rest by touching the floor.

The disadvantage of Kropa s patent 303 for his reverse seated chair is that the foot extensions attached to the base are intended for isometric exercises. Although the foot extensions can allow the user to perform isometric abdomen exercises by allowing the user to push forward on the cushioned front support which rests against the user s abdomen the foot extensions will not secure the user if the user attempts to lean back. The foot extensions are located too far out on each side of the base forcing the user s feet to be spread too far apart. If user s feet and knees are not aligned in a vertical manner the user s knees will experience a torque when the user attempts to lean back to support their weight. This will cause severe stresses and damage to the user s knees when the user attempts to lean back and support their weight. The foot extensions are suitable for placing only the toes beneath and therefore the user s total weight will be forced on just the toes. The total weight of the user applied on just a small portion of the user s toes will definitely cause pain. Additionally Kropa s chair does not have an adequate seat front support to apply force on the back of the user s knee to stabilize the user when the user leans back. Even if the foot extensions were able to secure the user s feet the user will fall backwards if the user attempts to perform abdominal exercises by leaning back because the user s feet are forced too far apart and the back of the user s knee have no support due to the round seat design and the fact that the foot extensions are placed outside of the seat area. If the user attempts to use the abductor extensions to engage the outer thigh to keep them from falling the user s knee joints will be under torque as stated above which will cause injuries. Additionally Kropa s patent for his chair 303 does not have a backrest to allow the user to sit comfortably for any extended period of time.

The disadvantage of Mongelluzzo s patent 955 is that it has a leg rest attached to a wheeled base which can be used to rest the user s legs or to perform leg exercises by letting the user push down against the leg rests. The leg rest can be locked in position to allow the user to push against the leg rest and perform twist and swivel motions to work the torso. Mongelluzzo s patent 955 has no means of securing human user s feet. Mongelluzzo s patent 955 requires a base support with at least about five supports . Mongelluzzo s patent 955 for his chair does not allow the backrest to recline completely and touch the floor. Also Mongelluzzo s chair patent 955 does not allow the backrest itself to hinge in two to allow the user a broader range of abdominal exercises.

The disadvantage of Foster s patent 121 for his chair that exercises the lumbar by deploying pelvic stabilizers is that the pelvic stabilizers have to be laboriously manipulated from the armrest before any exercise can be performed. Foster s 121 chair has no apparatus to lock the user s feet and stabilize the user s legs. Foster s chair has no means or method of exercising or stretching the abdomen or legs. Foster s 121 chair must be laboriously manipulated by the user to hold the user s pelvis in place. Foster s 121 chair only allows for 80 of exercise movement and Foster s 121 lumbar support pads cannot be completely moved from the seated user s path which limits the user s range of motion. Foster s 121 chair requires a plurality of laterally extending legs at least a pair of said legs . Foster s 121 chair has lumbar supports pads but no backrest making Foster s 121 chair unable to workout the abdomen. Additionally the lumbar support pads on Foster s chair 121 prevent the user from leaning fully back restricting the user from fully exercising their abdomen.

The disadvantage of Lin patent 250 is that it provides a chair with a swivel seat and backrest that limits exercise to only the user s lumbar and does not have a means or a method for the user to lean back to perform abdominal exercises. The user can simply lean forward on an ordinary seat and rotate their upper body to get the same result as Lin s 250 chair making the exercises function on Lin s 250 chair obsolete. Lin s 250 chair has no apparatus to lock the user s feet in place when the user performs exercises. Lin s chair has no means or method of exercising or stretching the legs or abdominal. Lin s chair works on a limited swivel motion and not a lean motion. Also Lin s 250 chair patent does not allow the backrest itself to hinge in two to allow the user a broader range of abdominal exercises. Lin s 250 chair does not allow the backrest to be lowered.

The disadvantage of Lin s patent 610 is that it is a continuation of his old patent 250 with the addition of L shaped handles to his chair. The addition of L shaped handles to Lin 250 does not broaden the operation of Lin s 610 chair. The L shaped handles only simplify the operation of the chair to the user and therefore does not broaden the scope of Lin s 610 chair. The addition of the L shaped handles to Lin s 250 also adds a strangely awkward look to the chair. Lin s 610 chair patent does not allow the backrest itself to hinge in two or allow the backrest to be lowered to allow the user a broader range of abdominal exercises.

The foot handles of Rice s patent 633 exercise the calf muscles of the legs and thighs but does not exercise the abdominal muscles. Rice s patent 633 shows that the foot handles cannot be locked in place. Rice 633 has no means or method of lowering reclining or moving the seatback from the user s way so that the user can perform abdominal exercises. Rice 633 has no apparatus to stabilize the user by locking the user s feet. Rice 633 does not have the means or a method for a user to lean back and perform abdominal exercises. Rice 633 patent has no means or method of exercising or stretching the abdomen. Rice s patent 633 has foot handles that are attached to the seat underside and not to the base making the seat unstable when the foot handles are in use. Rice s patent 633 does not have a stabilizing method for a user to lean back and perform exercises or stretches. Also Rice s patent 633 for his chair does not allow the backrest itself to hinge in two to allow the user a broader range of abdominal exercises. Rice s patent 633 does not allow for the backrest to be lowered.

The patents listed below have means for the user to exercise but are not office chairs or chairs with a coaster wheeled base suitable for the home office or such. The patents listed below are mostly considered as exercise devices such as gym equipment rather then an article of furniture 

This present embodiment exhibits an office chair further including means and methods to allow the user to perform exercises. This present embodiment does not require additional add ons and looks similar to a traditional office chair when the seatback is locked in the upright position. The user can perform exercises without laboriously manipulating this present embodiment whereby allowing a convenient means and method of exercising. The user can lock his or her feet in the means of securing human feet. When the user lock his or her feet the user can simply grab the handles located near or on the headrest and pull forward the seat back itself is allowed to hinge in two by means of hinging. This allows the user to work their upper abs without manipulating this present embodiment whatsoever. This present embodiment enables the user to perform exercises such as sit ups without the user having to lie on the floor. This present embodiment also cradles the back and tailbone allowing the user to exercise painlessly. The user s back and tailbone is stabilized and cushioned by an inflatable adjustable spine stabilizer air bag. Additionally the seatback is configured to unlock and be lowered fully to rest on the floor out of the user s way to allow the user to perform strenuous exercises. The fully lowered seatback adds additional stability to the chair and also provides the user with a safe area to rest on with out fear of bumping their head. The lowered seatback provides the user a safe and secure place to rest in between repetitions. Once the user s feet are locked in place by means of securing human feet the user s legs are stabilized and the user can perform exercises by leaning back without fear of falling due to the predetermined elongate support members that are located in the rear of the base to stabilize the user and the chair when the user leans back horizontally. The chair also has means and or methods to count the number of sit ups completed and calories burned. This data can be displayed on an armrest display. The data can also be stored and downloaded to a computer not shown conventionally known in the art. This present embodiment provides a quick convenient easy and safe means of securing human feet in place without having to be laboriously manipulated to offer the user a greater range of exercise motion.

The seat of can be best seen in and . The seat of has an upper side under side front side rear side right side and left side as well as a center. The seat has a cushioned upper side. The seat has cradle which is made up of a spine stabilizer air bag with a tailbone notch and a workout sensor . The spine stabilizer air bag is attached to a hand pump which has a deflate button . The seat has attached to it a means for joining armrest which is a member that joins an armrest on its right side and an armrest on its left side the armrests each having stationary handgrips and adjustable handgrips . One of the armrests has an armrest display of . The seat underside has a lean tension adjuster and locking and releasing apparatus . The seat underside joins a strut from here on will be referred to as an elongated support member perpendicularly so that the seat is supported parallel to the base . The seat underside can best be seen in which also shows locking and releasing apparatus and a seatback support . The seatback support has two ends wherein one end joins to the locking and releasing apparatus and the other end joins a seatback by a seatback adjust .

The seatback joins the seatback support by a seatback adjust that can best be seen in . The seatback support is attached to the seatback support hinge of on its other end. The seatback is made up of a seatback upper unit and a seatback lower unit that joins together by a means of hinging . The upper seatback tension arm with a stretch cord notch on one end that a multiple of stretch cords can be attached to. The upper seatback tension arm has a seatback lower unit stop bumper to stop the seatback upper unit from bending at the means of hinging when user leans back. The upper seatback tension arm has a seatback upper unit with an arm to join a headrest with handgrips by a headrest adjust .

Some other features of this present embodiment is that the means of securing human feet secure the user s feet while keeping the distance between the user s feet close while at the same time keeping the distance between the user s knees close to each other. This feature allows this present embodiment to secure the user comfortably without causing stress or strain to the user s joints such as twisting or torquing the user s ankles or knees when the user performs exercises. Another feature is that the user s knees are kept in a vertical line with the user s feet and shoulders which prevents any stress or strain on the user s joints and muscles that would result in injury. Other features are the use of a two point contact securing method used to secure the user when the user leans back to perform exercises or stretches. Means of securing human feet is the first contact point and it by itself is not enough to keep the user from falling. To prevent the user from falling a seat front is needed that is rigid secure and comfortable such as a curved seat front . The curved seat front is the second contact point that is used to keep the user from falling back. When the user leans back with his her feet secured there is nothing keeping the user s body from falling back. To prevent the user from falling back a seat front is needed to secure the user by applying a force to the back of the user s knees. This force will keep the user from sliding or falling off the seat.

This present embodiment has several advantages over prior art some of the advantages will be made apparent below 

This present embodiment provides its user with a seat for sitting working and a means to safely easily and conveniently lay flat or perform a variety of exercises and stretches. Furthermore the user can perform exercises and stretches while reading on the phone working on the computer or such. This present embodiment also provides the user with a quick convenient and easy access to a high quality workout. This present embodiment replaces multiple articles of furniture and workout equipment to provide the user with a clutter free consolidated high quality all in one article of furniture. Because this present embodiment offers a seat that includes workout stretch and rest capabilities and is readily available for the user it can help the user become fit or maintain their fitness. Since this present embodiment looks similar to a traditional office chair and not a workout machine the user can workout and not worry about leaving this present embodiment out in the open.

Many examples depictions drawings specifications and such have been given in general regarding this present embodiment. These examples depictions drawings specifications and such must not be used in limiting the scope of this present embodiment. For example altering or evolving this present embodiment can realize other embodiments such as making means of securing human feet without a cushion or making it more of a paddle using springs in place of the stretch cords eliminating the cushioned top on the seat and or using a mesh eliminating the seat center removing the armrests or other numerous components and parts. Other examples such as using different materials sizes colors making all the pedestal legs elongated or having one big ring around the base as a means to stabilize the user altering adding or eliminating parts to perform similar functions etc. Therefore the scope of this present embodiment should be determined by the appended claims and their legal equivalents rather than by the examples given.

