---

title: Ultratough single crystal boron-doped diamond
abstract: The invention relates to a single crystal boron doped CVD diamond that has a toughness of at least about 22 MPa m. The invention further relates to a method of manufacturing single crystal boron doped CVD diamond. The growth rate of the diamond can be from about 20-100 μm/h.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09023306&OS=09023306&RS=09023306
owner: Carnegie Institution of Washington
number: 09023306
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090505
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 071 524 filed May 5 2008 hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with U.S. government support from the National Science Foundation and the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates generally to single crystal diamond manufactured by chemical vapor deposition CVD . More specifically the invention is concerned with high quality ultratough single crystal CVD diamond doped with boron. The invention also relates to methods of manufacturing the same.

The fabrication of high quality single crystal CVD diamond SC CVD produced at high growth rates has drawn considerable attention Yan et al. Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. 2002 Liang et Phys. Lett. 2009 . This diamond material can be produced to exhibit a range of optical and mechanical properties either by optimizing the CVD growth or by post growth treatment. Specifically the hardness of the SC CVD can be significantly enhanced by high pressure high temperature HPHT annealing Yan et al. Phys. Stat. Sol. 2004 . This treatment also reduces the measured fracture toughness and provides a means by which to tune the hardness toughness. Whereas diamond is the hardest material currently known diamond is also brittle which limits certain scientific and technological applications. Efforts have been taken to improve the fracture toughness diamond by making diamond metal composites Wentorf et al. Science 1980 and by generating multi structured diamond material Anthony et al. Diam. Rel. Mater. 1997 .

Diamond has been acknowledged as the hardest material known to man the intrinsic hardness for natural single crystal diamond is around 100 GPa. As noted above however diamond is also known as a brittle material. It has been reported that fracture toughness K for type Ia diamond is between 7.0 and 8.4 MPa m for type IIa diamond Kis 4.2 5.6 MPa m Novikov et al. J. Hard Mater. 1993 Patridge et al. Materials Science and Technology 1994 .

Improvement in growing single crystal CVD diamond SC CVD by MPCVD Microwave Plasma assisted Chemical Vapor Deposition process has enabled the fabrication of large size over 3 ct as commercially available HPHT synthetic Ib diamond high quality diamonds Yan et al. Physica. Status. Solidi. 2004 Yan et al. Proceedings of the National Academy of Science 2002 . A gas chemistry including H CH N Ohas been used in the MPCVD process for diamond growth. The 100 growth was significantly enhanced by varying the growth conditions including substrate temperature pressure Nand Oflow rate and the color of the SC CVD ranges from dark brown to light brown to near colorless to colorless. Ultra high hardness 150 GPa and toughness 30 MPa m have been reported for such crystals Yan et al. Physica. Status. Solidi. 2004 .

It has also been reported that boron can be preferentially incorporated in the 111 sector in both gem diamonds Burns et al. J. Cryst. Growth 1990 and CVD diamond Miyata et al. J. Mater. Res. 1993 . Substitutional boron can expand the diamond lattice by 33.7 and its solubility in diamond can be as much as 0.9 Vornov et al. Neorganicheskie Materialy 1993 Arima et al. J. Crys. Growth 2007 . Boron doped single crystal diamond has been produced by HPHT and CVD processes however type IIb diamond with large size thicker than 2 mm has not been reported.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 981 057 is directed to a CVD diamond layer containing boron dopant atoms in a concentration of at least 0.05 atomic percent. The diamond layer has an average tensile rupture strength of at least 600 MPa with the nucleation face in tension and at least 300 MPa with the growth face in tension. Both tensile rupture strengths were measured by a three point bend test on a sample 11 mm in length 2 mm in width and with a thickness of 1.4 mm or smaller.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 201 886 is directed to a diamond tool comprising a shaped diamond having at least one layer of single crystal diamond heavily doped to create a visible color. The dopant can be boron.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 160 617 relates to a layer of single crystal boron doped diamond produced by CVD and having a total boron concentration which is uniform.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 858 078 to Hemley et al. which is incorporated herein by reference is directed to an apparatus and method for diamond production. The disclosed apparatus and method can lead to the production of diamonds that are light brown to colorless.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 889 171 which is incorporated herein by reference is directed to annealing single crystal chemical vapor deposition diamonds. Important inventive features include raising the CVD diamond to a set temperature of at least 1500 C. and a pressure of at least 4.0 GPa outside of the diamond stable phase.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 889 170 U.S. Pat. No. 7 115 241 which is herein incorporated by reference is directed to diamonds with improved hardness. The application discloses a single crystal diamond with a hardness greater than 120 GPa.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 889 169 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 157 067 which is herein incorporated by reference is directed to diamonds with improved toughness. The application discloses a single crystal diamond with a fracture toughness of 11 20 MPamand a hardness of 50 90 GPa.

U.S. application Ser. No. 11 222 224 which is incorporated by reference is directed to an annealed single crystal CVD diamond having a high toughness.

The cited references do not relate to single crystal boron doped CVD diamond that is exceedingly tough. High toughness is a desired quality in single crystal diamond for uses including but not limited to micro and nanomachining and rock drilling. Accordingly there is an unfulfilled need for single crystal diamond that has a high toughness. Additionally there is a real need for highly tough single crystal diamond with tunable characteristics including but not limited to color. It is therefore a principal object of this invention to provide such highly tough diamond. Other objects will also be apparent from the detailed description of the invention which follows.

The invention achieves its objective in part through the incorporation of boron into the diamond. Broadly stated the present invention relates to a single crystal boron doped diamond grown by microwave plasma chemical vapor deposition that has a toughness of at least about 22 MPa m.

Broadly stated the method for growing single crystal boron doped diamond of high toughness can include the following steps 

In one aspect the invention embraces single crystal boron doped diamond grown by microwave plasma chemical vapor deposition that has a toughness of at least about 22 MPa m. In another aspect the hardness can be greater than about 60 GPa.

The present invention relates to further improvements in mechanical properties of single crystal diamond fabricated by microwave plasma assisted chemical vapor deposition at high growth rates. Such further improvements can be observed after boron and or nitrogen doping. Additional improvements can be observed when boron nitrogen doping is performed in conjuction with low pressure high temperature LPHT annealing which is the subject of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 244 053 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 108 283 both of which are incorporated herein by reference. Boron nitrogen incorporation can dramatically increase the toughness of single crystal CVD diamond leading to a material that can be termed ultratough. The LPHT annealing can enhance intrinsic hardness of this diamond by a factor of two without appreciable loss in fracture toughness. This doping and post growth treatment of diamond may lead to new technological applications that require enhanced mechanical properties of diamond.

Various boron containing single crystal diamonds were synthesized by high density MPCVD at 5 20 CH H 5 20 O CH 0 20 N CH 100 400 Torr and at temperatures ranging from 900 C. to 1500 C. It must be noted that other gases can be substituted for O such other gases containing oxygen within the molecule. Examples include carbon dioxide carbon monoxide and water vapor. Boron can be added to the chemistry using any chemical compounds which include boron other atoms within the molecule can include one or more of nitrogen carbon hydrogen and oxygen atoms in any phase. Examples of boron containing compounds which can be effectively introduced into the CVD reaction chamber include but are not limited to diborane BH or Trimethyl Borate TMB gases vaporized BO or hexagonal boron nitride powder. The decomposition of these compounds in the plasma system will supply a sufficient amount of boron to the doping process. Analogous to that of diamond formation by CHspecies in a hydrogen rich CVD process reactions between boron and hydrogen create a copious amount of BH X 0 3 . The rapid interconversion reactions of BH HBH H X 0 3 will produce a sufficient amount of BH species which can be inserted into diamond structure Cheesman et al. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2005 . The doping level can be adjusted by 

Substrates used to make the diamond of the invention were natural Ia or IIa HPHT synthetic Ib or SC CVD with 100 surfaces. The top growth surface can be slightly off 100 plane preferably between 0 and 20 degrees and more preferably between 0 15 degrees. With an off axis angle lower than 1 degree octahedral diamond with 111 faces begins to form and 100 preferred growth can not continue. The growth layer can not be thicker than 100 microns. With an off axis angle higher than 20 degree isolated 100 columns and steps will take place. Off angles between 1 and 20 degrees will generate a smooth step flow morphology free of hillocks hence enlarging the single crystal diamond. A growth rate of 20 100 m h was recorded which is a 10 100 times improvement compared with other B doped single crystal diamond growth Arima et al J. Crys. Growth 2007 .

By varying the process parameters including but not limited to Nfeed gas rate B dopant amount off angle and surface temperature and consequently varying the boron and nitrogen content the color of the boron doped SC CVD is tunable from dark brown light brown near colorless colorless faint blue to dark blue. shows three samples with colors of a light brown b colorless and c faint blue.

The photoluminescence spectra for samples a through c excited at 514 nm laser is shown in . Compared with CVD diamond without boron CVD diamond with boron incorporation can improve the diamond quality and minimize diamond defects Chrenko Physical Review B 1973 Show et al. Diamond Relat. Mater. 2000 Locher et al. Diamond Relat. Mater. 1995 . Nitrogen vacancy N V centers might or might not exist for boron doped diamonds. For tough and ultratough boron doped diamond single crystal diamond the ratio of I Ivaries between 0 and 100 1. The color grading of boron doped single crystal diamonds sits between D and Z on Diamond Color Grading Scales. Introducing boron can completely eliminate the incorporation of silicon in diamond structure as evidenced by the lack of indication of a silicon PL peak at 735 nm. This gives rise to the idea of making SC CVD diamond further colorless by applying a very small amount of boron into the reaction chamber to compensate for the silicon contamination coming from e.g. the heated quartz component in the CVD chamber nitrogen contamination which might come from contamination from process gas tanks such as a methane tank Research Grade 4.0 with 60 ppm nitrogen impurity contamination from the vacuum sealing contamination from chamber wall and substrate holders heated by microwave plasma.

From the UV visible absorption spectra of the brown boron doped SC CVD diamonds exhibited a broad band around 270 nm related to substitutional nitrogen and 550 nm due to the nitrogen vacancy center Martineau et al. Gems Gemology 2004 . The colorless boron doped SC CVD diamonds have a much lower background and show extremely low or no trace of the 270 nm and 550 nm bands. For faint blue boron doped SC CVD diamonds extremely low or no nitrogen impurity was located and a blue hue on the spectra was observed.

As seen in boron incorporation is further confirmed by FTIR absorption bands at 2800 2457 electronic excitations and 1282 cm single phonon absorption were observed Burns et al. J. Cryst. Growth 1990 Prelas et al. Handbook of Industrial Diamonds and Diamond Films Marcel Dekker New York USA 1998 Gheeraert et al. Diamond and Relat. Mater. 1998 . For samples with higher boron concentration peaks at higher wavenumbers i.e. at 3723 4085 5025 5362 cm can also be observed. Boron concentration can be determined by SIMS uncompensated boron can also be determined by the integrated intensities of absorption coefficient of peaks at 1282 2457 2800 cm Prelas et al. Handbook of Industrial Diamonds and Diamond Films Marcel Dekker New York USA 1998 Gheeraert et al. Diamond and Relat. Mater. 1998 . For CVD boron doped diamond films the uncompensated boron concentration is calculated from the following equation cm 1.1 10 2880 cm cm 3 Based on this equation and the plot of toughness vs. hardness boron concentration of ultratough boron doped diamonds varies between 0 to 100 ppm. Also boron incorporation introduced less or even eliminated hydrogen electronic centers over 5000 cmon IR spectra. Color improvement by boron incorporation is further confirmed by the minimization of H related IR peaks at higher wavenumbers Meng et al. Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 2008 . In another words the brown color of CVD single crystal diamonds can be tuned by boron addition.

Single crystal diamond was synthesized by high density microwave plasma chemical vapor deposition MPCVD at 5 20 CH H 0 0.2 N CH at 150 220 torr and at temperatures ranging from 1100 C. to 1300 C. as measured by a two color infrared pyrometer. Hexagonal boron nitride h BN powder was selected as the dopant and introduced into the CVD system. The decomposition of h BN in the plasma system supplies a sufficient amount of boron for the doping process. A growth rate of 20 100 m h was recorded. After the growth CVD layers were separated from the substrates by a Q switched Nd YAG laser followed by fine polishing to remove any residual carbon. Undoped SC CVD crystals free of visible defects in the size range of 0.2 mm to 6 mm were selected for LPHT annealing. The 6 kW 2.45 GHz MPCVD reactor was used for annealing which was carried out with a measured diamond surface temperature 1600 2200 C. at gas pressures between 150 and 300 torr.

Quantifying mechanical properties such as fracture toughness for materials such as diamond is challenging. Historically Vickers micro hardness testing techniques have been used to evaluate both the hardness and fracture toughness of diamond Novikov et al. 1993 Drory et al. Appl. Phys. Lett. 1995 . However ambiguity arises when Vickers indenters are used against material with hardness comparable or exceeding that of the indenter material i.e. single crystal diamond . Hardness values higher than 120 GPa in which deformation of the indenting tip occurs are unrealistic Brazhkin et al. Nature Materials 2004 . However the consistency of the values obtained with other types of diamonds whose mechanical properties have been determined by a variety of approaches demonstrates that this method is capable of providing useful results. The technique also provides important comparable results used for investigating the mechanical properties of superhard materials generally Yan et al. Phys. Stat. Sol. 2004 . In the present study an identical methodology was employed to study the hardness toughness of boron doped and LPHT treated SC CVD diamond.

Hardness fracture toughness data are plotted in for natural type Ia type IIa synthetic type Ib SC CVD LPHT treated SC CVD and boron nitrogen doped SC CVD. The hardness His determined by the applied load P and the indentation size 2a according to 1.854 P a 2 1 where the mean lengths of radial cracks propagating from the indentation corners were used to estimate the fracture toughness Yan et al. Physica. Status Solidi. 2004 Miyata et al. J. Mater. Res. 1993 Cheesman et al. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2005 0.016 P c 2 where C is the length of radial cracks measured from the indent center c c c 4 and E is the Young s modulus Liang et al. Appl. Phys. Lett. 2003 . To prevent plastic deformation loads between 1 and 3 kg were used. To validate the indentation results all indenters were inspected under a microscope and tested on a polished metal surface before and after each diamond indentation. All tests were performed using the same Vickers indenter instrument natural Ia natural IIa synthetic Ib and selected previous measurements on SC CVD diamond are shown Yan et al. Physica. Status Solidi. 2004 . Although the quantification of the hardness toughness values for comparison with the results of other types of measurements require detailed analysis Prelas et al. Handbook of Industrial Diamonds and Diamond Films Marcel Dekker New York USA 1998 Hemley et al. U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2006065187 the dataset provides a quantitative relative measure of hardness toughness for the diamond materials studied here.

The type Ia and IIa diamonds measured here have Kvalues of 8 4 MPa m and that of type I b synthetic diamond is 10 2 MPa m. Without boron doping SC CVD diamond grown with. H CH Nchemistry has a Vickers based fracture toughness measure of 15 5 MPa m 50 higher than type I b synthetic diamond. In contrast the calculated fracture toughness of the boron doped. SC CVD diamond is higher than 22 MPa m. This material has highly enhanced fracture toughness on this scale compared with values obtained on undoped SC CVD diamond without compromising the hardness 78 12 GPa .

It is recognized that the strongest bonding in diamond lies along 100 direction with 111 plane being the cleavage plane Chrenko Physical Review 1973 . For the crystals measured in this study cross like cracks along 100 111 and 110 directions were only observed in natural and type Ib crystals. For SC CVD as grown and annealed the indentation marks exhibit square crack patterns along the softer 110 and 111 directions. However for a number of boron nitrogen doped diamond specimens there is a complete lack of a trace of cracking along the indentation craters. This remarkable result appears not to have been previously reported for diamond . The observation obviously precludes quantification of the fracture toughness using the Vickers technique. Indeed it may be argued that quantitative measurements on materials having fracture toughness higher than 30 MPa mexceed the limit of indentation techniques. Nevertheless we emphasize that the behavior of the diamond material studied here is qualitatively different.

The measurements further reveal that the LPHT annealed SC CVD exhibits ultrahard characteristics measured hardness of at least 125 GPa without an appreciable reduction in toughness K 12 16 MPa m . This contrasts with the results obtained previously for SC CVD subjected to high pressure high temperature HPHT annealing Yan et al. Phys. Stat. Sal. 2004 . Recently annealing studies of these diamonds under low pressure high temperature LPHT conditions 1600 C. 

A representative photoluminescence spectra and images of the diamond material studied are shown in . High quality diamond crystals exhibit the prominent second order Raman feature. The bands assigned to NVcenters around 575 nm and NV centers around 637 nm demonstrate the incorporation of nitrogen in the diamond structure. Changes in infrared spectra after LPHT annealing were similar to those found after HPHT processing Meng et al. Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 2008 . Without being bound by theory measurements to date lead the inventors to propose that the interaction among nitrogen boron and adjacent carbon atoms give rise to the enhanced toughness.

On the basis of the present results it is suggested that the enhanced optical and mechanical properties of the diamond materials described here may find useful applications as optical windows in harsh environments mechanical testing abrasive machining laser optics and transparent shielding and MEMS devices. The low cost large area LPHT annealing process may be an alternative to HPHT annealing and could have important industrial applications.

Examples of applications of ultratough boron doped diamonds include but are not limited to the following non ferrous materials machining micromachining and nanomachining graphite high silicon alloy machining in automotive industry rock oil drilling where extremely high toughness diamonds are needed high pressure anvils with tunable conductivity and higher toughness to carry on high pressure limits and high temperature and severe environment electro sensors. The high toughness of the boron doped diamonds also makes them a potential candidate for titanium machining for aerospace industry.

As the present invention may be embodied in several forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof it should also be understood that the above described embodiments are not limited by any of the details of the foregoing description unless otherwise specified but rather should be construed broadly within its spirit and scope as defined in the appended claims and therefore all changes and modifications that fall within the metes and bounds of the claims or equivalence of such metes and bounds are therefore intended to be embraced by the appended claims.

