---

title: Preventing biofilm formation on implantable medical devices
abstract: Biodegradable polymer-coated surgical meshes formed into pouches are described for use with cardiac rhythm management devices (CRMs) and other implantable medical devices. Such meshes are formed into a receptacle, e.g., a pouch or other covering, capable of encasing, surrounding and/or holding the cardiac rhythm management device or other implantable medical device and preventing or retarding the formation of a biofilm.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08315700&OS=08315700&RS=08315700
owner: TYRX, Inc.
number: 08315700
owner_city: Monmouth Junction
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20091228
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. Ser. No. 11 936 054 filed Nov. 6 2007 which is a continuation in part of U.S. Ser. No. 11 672 929 filed Feb. 8 2007. This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 140 918 filed Dec. 26 2008 U.S. Ser. No. 11 936 054 claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Nos. 60 864 597 filed Nov. 6 2006 and 60 984 254 filed Oct. 31 2007 U.S. Ser. No. 11 672 929 claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 771 827 filed Feb. 8 2006. Each of the aforementioned applications are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety for all purposes.

Prosthetic implants such as meshes combination mesh products or other porous prostheses are commonly used to provide a physical barrier between types of tissue or extra strength to a physical defect in soft tissue. However such devices are often associated with post surgical complications including post implant infection pain excessive scar tissue formation and shrinkage of the prosthesis or mesh. Excessive scar tissue formation limited patient mobility and chronic pain are often attributed to the size shape and mass of the implant and a variety of efforts have been undertaken to reduce the amount of scar tissue formation. For example lighter meshes using smaller fibers larger weaves and or larger pore sizes as well as meshes woven from both non resorbable and resorbable materials are in use to address these concerns.

For treating acute pain and infection patients with implanted prostheses are typically treated post operatively with systemic antibiotics and pain medications. Patients will occasionally be given systemic antibiotics prophylactically however literature review of clinical trials does not indicate that systemic antibiotics are effective at preventing implant related infections.

In 1992 it was reported that nosocomial infections involved over 2 million patients each year and cost the healthcare systems over 4.5 billion dollars annually.Today these numbers are undoubtedly much higher. Surgical site infections involving approximately 500 000 patients represent the second most common cause of nosocomial infections and approximately 17 of all hospital acquired infections.The incidence of infections associated with the placement of pacemakers has been reported as 0.13 to 19.9 at an average cost of 35 000 to treat these complications which most often involves complete removal of the implant.

Post operative infection is tied to a number of different elements lack of host defense mechanisms the clinical site where the surgery is performed the length of the surgery and bacteria present at the time of device implantation.The general health of the patient i.e. the host factor is always important however since many patients requiring surgery are compromised in some way and there is little that can be done to mitigate that factor controlling the other two factors becomes important.

Studies have shown that patients are exposed to bacterial contamination in the hospital especially in the operating room OR and along the route to the OR.In fact bacterial counts of up to 7.0 10CFU mLhave been found in the OR dressing area.In addition many surgical procedures are not performed in a formal OR but rather are performed in a day surgery or out patient surgical center e.g. procedures such as changing batteries in medical devices are not necessarily carried out in an OR . Recent improvements in air handling and surface cleansing have reduced the environmental levels of infectious agents but not eliminated them. Consequently further means to reduce bacterial contamination or to reduce the potential for bacterial infection are desirable.

Controlling the inoculation levels is the third component to the intra and post operative surgical infection control triad. One aspect to microbial control is the use antibiotics. For example one practice advocates the administration of systemic antibiotics within 60 minutes prior to incision with additional dosing if the surgery exceeds 3 hours.Such pre incision administration has shown some positive effects on the incidence of infection associated with the placement of pacemakers.Surgeons also routinely wash the surgical site with an antimicrobial agent such as an Iodophor or antibiotic or a combination of agents. None of these procedures have been standardized nor have they been found to be efficacious. An adjunctive approach to managing the potential for implant contamination has been the introduction of antimicrobial agents on implantable medical devices.

This approach was initially developed to create a barrier to microbial entry into the body via surface penetrating devices such as indwelling catheters The antimicrobial agents were applied in solution as a direct coating on the device to prevent or reduce bacterial colonization of the device and therefore reduce the potential for a device related infection. While a number of clinical trials have demonstrated that antimicrobial coating on devices such as central venous catheters reduce device colonization reduction of infection has not been statistically significant although the numerical trends show a reduction in patient infection.These results are highly relevant since they tend to establish that with proper aseptic and surgical techniques as well as administration of appropriate antibiotic therapy the use of surface modified devices has a positive impact on the overall procedural patient outcome.

The development of post operative infection is dependent on many factors and it is not clear exactly how many colony forming units CFUs are required to produce clinical infection. It has been reported that an inoculation of 10bacteria at the surgical site produces a wound infection rate of 20 .And while current air handling technology and infection control procedures have undoubtedly reduced the microbial levels in the hospital setting microbial contamination of an implantable device is still possible. It is known that bacteria such as can produce bacteremia within a short time after implantation i.e. within 90 days with a device or lay dormant for months before producing an active infection so eradication of the bacterial inoculum at the time of implantation is key and may help to reduce late stage as well as early stage device related infections.

For example the combination of rifampin and minocycline has demonstrated antimicrobial effectiveness as a coating for catheters and other implanted devices including use of those drugs in a non resorbable coating such as silicone and polyurethane.The combination of rifampin and minocycline has also been shown to reduce the incidence of clinical infection when used as a prophylactic coating on penile implants.

U.S. Ser. No. 11 672 929 describes a bioresorbable polymer coating on a surgical mesh as a carrier for the antimicrobial agents rifampin and minocycline. Such meshes can be fashioned into a pouch of various sizes and shapes to match the implanted pacemakers pulse generators defibrillators and other implantable medical devices. The addition of the antimicrobial agents permits the pouch to deliver antimicrobial agents at the implant site and thus to provide a barrier to microbial colonization of a CRM during surgical implantation as an adjunct to surgical and systemic infection control.

During the period from 1996 2003 there was a 49 rise in the number of new cardiac rhythm medical device CRM or CRMD implantations but a 310 increase in the number of hospitalizations due to infections related to CRM implants. 2.8 fold increase for pacemakers and 6 fold increase for ICDs . Further CRM infection increased the risk of in hospital death more than 2 fold. The challenges faced when treating such implant infections emphasize the critical need to develop improved methods of preventing the infection of implantable devices.

Hence the incidence of implantable device related infections continues to pose significant clinical problems not only with CRMs. but also with other implantable devices such as neurostimulators and infusion pumps are susceptible to infection risks.

The most common bacterial strains involved in the etiology of cardiac device infections include and coagulase negative such as . Staphylococcal species including methicillin resistant MRSA account for more than of cardiac device infections in most published series. These bacteria are able to adhere to device surfaces and in some cases form a biofilm consisting of a polysaccharide matrix surrounding the microorganisms. This matrix protects the microorganisms from antibiotics and host defenses making the infection highly resistant to antibiotic regimens. Cardiac device infections by these microorganisms most often occur within the generator pocket and are believed to be due mainly to local contamination at the time of device implantation. Studies have shown that approximately 30 of the patients with pocket infections also had bacteremia. In most cases whether the patient presents with bacteremia or not infection of the intravascular portion of the lead is often present generally caused by progression of the infection from the generator pocket. Due to the ineffectiveness of systemic antibiotics to penetrate through tissue and reach high enough concentrations to eradicate the localized device contamination and pocket infection as well as the involvement of generator and leads the prevailing medical opinion is that surgical removal of the generator and leads is the most effective treatment once a pocket infection is diagnosed. This type of surgical treatment is both costly and risky for patients dependent on the device. The estimated cost to treat each infection is 32 000 with total estimated costs of all device related infections estimated at 640 million per year excluding the costs of device replacement.

Meta analysis of prospective randomized trials suggests a consistent protective effect against CRMD infections by using systemic antibiotics pre and post implantation. However while the use of pre and post operative systemic antibiotics is proven effective several studies demonstrate a lack of consistent compliance with standards for preventing surgical site infections. The lack of compliance along with a desire to reduce the use of systemic antibiotics to minimize the development of resistant organisms provides significant motivation to develop a more effective means to prevent the initial infection at the time of implant.

Coating antimicrobial agents directly onto implantable medical devices or impregnating such devices with antimicrobial agents can potentially eliminate or reduce the microorganism burden at implant and has been proposed to provide a device with long lasting resistance to staphylococcal biofilm colonization by coating or impregnating rifampin and minocycline or rifampin and novobiocin on the surface of an indwelling medical devices Abstract U.S. Pat. No. 5 217 493 and generally U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 624 704 and 5 902 283 . In another example impregnation of central venous catheters with a combination of rifampin and minocyclin has been associated with a reduction of catheter associated bacteremia. However these impregnated devices have minimal capacity to elute the antimicrobial agents into the surrounding tissue and little if any ability to deliver it in more than miniscule quantities by virtue of the methodology employed to coat or impregnate the drugs. These limitations may make prevention or reduction of biofilm formation less effective and may increase the development of resistant strains by eluting such low quantities of drug such that all organisms are not eradicated.

Pocket infection remains one of the most significant problems facing CRM implants with reports of 2 8 of implants developing infection. Because the infections typically include biofilm formation on the device surface antibiotics are largely ineffective in eliminating the etiologic microorganisms because at least in part the biofilm protects the bacteria residing within the biofilm from destruction. Novel products aimed at preventing not only device colonization but also biofilm formation at the time the pocket is contaminated may provide an important step in reducing device infections.

The present invention demonstrates that a pouch made of biopolymer polypropylene mesh incorporated with one or more antimicrobial drugs is effective at preventing bacteria from colonizing the device and forming biofilms.

In addition the present invention addresses these needs preventing or inhibiting infections as well as others such as pain relief and inhibition or reduction of scar tissue fibrosis and the like by providing temporarily stiffened meshes formed into pouches or other receptacles to hold an implantable medical device upon implantation.

The present invention relates to pouches coverings and the like made from implantable surgical meshes comprising one or more biodegradable polymer coatings. The mesh pouches of the invention can be shaped as desired into pouches bags coverings shells skins receptacles and the like to fit any implantable medical device. Preferred meshes of the invention are comprised of woven polypropylene coated with one or more biodegradable polymer to impart drug elution or other temporary effects.

As used herein pouch pouches mesh pouch mesh pouches pouch of the invention and pouches of the invention means any pouch bag skin shell covering or other receptacle made from an implantable surgical mesh comprising one or more biodegradable polymer coatings and shaped to encapsulate encase surround cover or hold in whole or in substantial part an implantable medical device. The pouches of the invention have openings to permit leads and tubes of the IMD to extend unhindered from the IMD though the opening of the pouch. The pouches may also have porosity to accommodate monopolar devices that require the IMD to be electrically grounded to the surrounding tissue. An IMD is substantially encapsulated encased surrounded or covered when the pouch can hold the device and at least 20 30 50 60 75 85 90 95 or 98 of the device is within the pouch or covered by the pouch.

In accordance with this invention the coated surgical meshes can be formed to encapsulate a pacemaker a defibrillator a generator an implantable access system a neurostimulator or any other implantable device for the purpose of securing them in position providing pain relief inhibiting scarring or fibrosis and or inhibiting bacterial growth. Such coated meshes are formed into an appropriate shape either before or after coating with the biodegradable polymers.

In one aspect the pouches of the invention may act as medical prostheses providing support to or stabilizing the device and the tissue surrounding the area of implant e.g. to minimize movement of the device in the body of the patient and are thus also referred to as medical prostheses.

Hence the pouches of the invention comprise a mesh and one or more coating which temporarily stiffens the mesh to at least 1.1 times its original stiffness. The coatings on such meshes do not alter the integrity of the mesh and thus allow the mesh to remain porous. In general the coatings do not substantially alter the porosity of the mesh. More particularly the pouches of the invention comprise a mesh with one or more coatings with at least one of the coatings comprising a stiffening agent s that coats the filaments or fibers of the mesh so to temporarily immobilize the contact points of those filaments or fibers. Again the coatings on such meshes do not alter the integrity or strength of the underlying mesh and allow the mesh to remain porous after coating. In general the coatings do not substantially alter the porosity of the mesh. The meshes are capable of substantially reverting to their original stiffness under conditions of use.

The stiffening agents i.e. as applied in the coatings of the invention can selectively partially or fully coat the contact points of the filaments or said fibers of the mesh to create a coating. The contact points generally include the knots of woven meshes. Such coating can be positioned on the mesh in a templated pattern or in an array such as might be deposited with ink jet type technology including computer controlled deposition techniques. Additionally the coatings can be applied on one or both sides of the mesh.

In some embodiments the stiffening agents include hydrogels either alone or in combination with one or more biodegradable polymers. In some embodiments the stiffening agent is one or more biodegradable polymers and can be applied in layers. One or more biodegradable polymers can be used per individual coating layer. Preferred biodegradable polymer comprises one or more tyrosine derived diphenol monomer units as polyarylates polycarbonates or polyiminocarbonates.

In another aspect of the invention the pouches of the invention have at least one of the coatings that further comprise one or more drugs. Such drugs include but are not limited to antimicrobial agents anesthetics analgesics anti inflammatory agents anti scarring agents anti fibrotic agents leukotriene inhibitors as well as other classes of drugs including biological agents such as proteins growth inhibitors and the like.

The biodegradable polymer coatings are capable of releasing one or more drugs into surrounding bodily tissue and proximal to the device such that the drug reduces or prevents implant or surgery related complications. For example by including an anesthetic agent in the coating that predictably seeps or elutes into the surrounding bodily tissue bodily fluid or systemic fluid one has a useful way to attenuate pain experienced at the implantation site. In another example replacing the anesthetic agent with an anti inflammatory agent provides a way to reduce the swelling and inflammation associated implantation of the mesh device and or pouch. In yet another example by delivering an antimicrobial agent in the same manner one has a way to provide a rate of drug release sufficient to prevent colonization of the mesh pouch the CRM or other IMD and or the surgical implantation site by bacteria for at least the period following surgery necessary for initial healing of the surgical incision.

In other embodiments the pouches of the present invention are suitable for the prevention and or retardation of biofilm formation on an implantable medical device. In accordance with the invention the present method is directed to implanting in a subject a medical device which is enveloped or covered in whole or in part in a polymer pouch including both fully resorbable and partially resorbable or non resorbable pouches which elute one or more antimicrobial agents in amounts effective to prevent or retard biofilm formation on the device preferably for an extended period of time. In one embodiment the non resorbable pouch is a polymer coated polypropylene mesh that elutes drug. In another embodiment the polymer pouch is a moldable and resorbable composition consisting essentially of i one or more one resorbable polymers and ii one or more antimicrobial agents in amounts effective to prevent biofilm formation.

The coatings on the pouches of the invention can deliver multiple drugs from one or more independent layers some of which may contain no drug.

The invention thus provides a method of delivering drugs at controlled rates and for set durations of time using biodegradable resorbable polymers from a coating on a surgical mesh formed as a pouch of the invention.

All documents cited are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes. The citation of any document is not to be construed as an admission that it is prior art with respect to the present invention.

Biofilm formation and development on a medical device occurs in distinct stages. First the bacterial or fungal cells reversibly attached to a surface e.g. the surface of a medical device or implant through weak hydrophobic interactions and electrostatic forces. This attachment step depends upon a number of factors including the composition or material comprising the device surface as well as the surface texture surface charge and hydrophobicity of the device surface. For example microbes typically adhere more readily to polymeric surfaces than metallic surfaces rough surfaces more readily than smooth surfaces and hydrophobic surfaces more readily than hydrophilic surfaces. The charge of the device surface can also play a role microorganisms including staphylococci are more likely to bind positively charge polymer surfaces than negatively charge surfaces. In addition to device factors host proteins are thought to play a vital role in the attachment of microbes to device surfaces. Implanted devices rapidly become coated with a film of host derived proteins including fibronectin fibrinogen fibrin albumin collagen lamina vitronectin elastin and von Willebrand factor vWf . Many of these proteins most notably fibronectin fibrinogen fibrin and vWf promote and enhance the binding of Gram positive cocci Gram negative bacilli and . The second stage irreversible adhesion occurs when organisms bind irreversibly to a surface via microbial cell surface adhesins and become extremely resistant to extreme shear stress. During the third stage of aggregation the attached organisms begin to secrete EPS and coalesce to form microcolonies which constitute the basic structural units of all biofilms. Finally during the subsequent growth and maturation stages individual microcolonies within the biofilm continue to grow and develop and eventually become separated from other microcolonies.

The growth rate size and final shape of biofilms are highly organism specific. Biofilms can comprise Gram negative Gram positive bacteria and or yeasts. Commonly isolated Gram positive organisms include and other coagulase negative staphylococci enterococci and streptococci. Frequently isolated Gram negative bacilli include and spp. and spp. can also form biofilms. Biofilms formed on medical devices can comprise a single organism or multiple types of organisms including both bacteria and yeast.

The method of the present invention for preventing and or retarding biofilm formation on implantable medical devices susceptible to the formation of biofilms comprises enveloping or covering the medical device with a pouch as described herein comprising one or more antimicrobial agents e.g. rifampin and minocyclin whereby after implantation of the enveloped covered device the formation of biofilms prevented or retarded. The method of the present invention is particularly suitable for the prevention or retardation of biofilms for medical devices particularly susceptible to the formation of biofilms e.g. vascular catheters explanted catheter leads cardiovascular rhythm management devices breast implants etc. or for surgical procedures in which biofilm formation is of particular concern or in which it is difficult to avoid contamination of the surgical site with biofilm forming microorganisms.

The pouches of the invention are formed from the coated implantable surgical meshes and comprise a surgical mesh and one or more biodegradable polymer coating layers with each coating layer optionally and independently further containing a drug. The physical mechanical chemical and resorption characteristics of the coating enhance the clinical performance of the mesh and the surgeon s ability to implant the device. These characteristics are accomplished by choosing a suitable coating thickness and the biodegradable polymer.

A mesh in accordance with the invention is any web or fabric with a construction of knitted braided woven or non woven filaments or fibers that are interlocked in such a way to create a fabric or a fabric like material. As used in accordance with the present invention mesh also includes any porous prosthesis suitable for temporarily stiffening.

Surgical meshes are well known in the art and any such mesh can be coated as described herein. The meshes used in the present invention are made from biocompatible materials synthetic or natural including but not limited to polypropylene polyester polytetrafluoroethylene polyamides and combinations thereof. One of the advantages of the present invention is that the coatings can be used with any commercially available mesh. A preferred mesh is made from woven polypropylene. Pore sizes of meshes vary. For example the Bard Marlex mesh has pores of 379 143 micrometers or approx. 0.4 mm whereas the Johnson and Johnson Vypro mesh has pores of 3058 62 micrometers or approx. 3 mm.

The stiffening agents of the invention include hydrogels biodegradable polymers and any other compound capable of imparting temporary stiffness to the mesh in accordance with the invention. Temporary stiffness means that relative to the corresponding uncoated mesh material there is an increase in stiffness when one or more coatings are applied in accordance with the invention. Upon use those coatings then soften or degrade over time in a manner that causes the mesh to revert back to its original stiffness revert nearly back to its original stiffness or sufficient close to its original stiffness to provide the desired surgical outcome and the expected patient comfort. To determine if the medical prosthesis has temporary stiffness the prosthesis can be evaluated in vitro or in vivo. For example a coating can be applied to the mesh and then the mesh left in a physiological solution for a period of time before measuring its stiffness. The time period of stiffness is controlled by the degradation rate for biodegradable polymers or absorption ability for hydrogels . The time period can vary from days to weeks or even a few months and is most conveniently determined in vitro. Meshes with that revert to their original stiffness in vitro within a reasonable time from 1 day to 3 4 months are considered to be temporarily stiffened. Additionally animal models can be used to assess temporary stiffness by implanting the mesh and then removing it from the animal and determining if its stiffness had changed. Such in vivo results can be correlated with the in vitro results by those of skill in the art. Methods to measure stiffness of a mesh or a coated mesh are known in the art.

A hydrogel is composed of a network of water soluble polymer chains. Hydrogels are applied as coatings and dried on the mesh. Upon use e.g. implantation in the body the hydrogel absorbs water and become soft hydrogels can contain over 99 water thereby increasing the flexibility of the mesh and reverting to the original or near original stiffness of the mesh. Typically hydrogels possess a degree of flexibility very similar to natural tissue due to their significant water content. Common ingredients for hydrogels include e.g. polyvinyl alcohol sodium polyacrylate acrylate polymers and copolymers with an abundance of hydrophilic groups.

Meshes can have one or more polymer coatings and can optionally include drugs in the coatings. Meshes with a single coating are useful to improve handling of the mesh during surgical implantation and use. Meshes with drugs can be coated with single or multiple layers depending on the amount of drug to be delivered the type of drug and desired release rate. Each layer can contain the same or different polymers the same or different drugs and the same or different amounts of polymers or drugs. For example a first coating layer can contain drug while the second layer coating layer contains either no drug or a lower concentration of drug.

The biodegradable coating deposited onto the surface of the mesh gives the mesh superior handling characteristics relative to uncoated meshes and facilitates surgical insertion because it imparts stiffness to the mesh and thereby improves handling thereof. Over time however the coating resorbs or the stiffening agents degrades or softens to leave a flexible mesh that provides greater patient comfort without loss of strength.

The surgical mesh can be coated with the biodegradable polymer using standard techniques such as spray or dip coating to achieve a uniform coating having a thickness that provides at least 1.1 to 4.5 and more preferably 1.25 to 2 times the stiffness of the uncoated mesh. In addition the coating is optimized to provide for a uniform flexible non flaking layer that remains adhered to the mesh throughout the implantation and initial wound healing process. Typically the polymer coating must maintain its integrity for at least 1 week. Optimal coating solutions are obtained by choosing a biodegradable polymer with a solubility between about 0.01 to about 30 in volatile solvents such as methylene chloride or other chlorinated solvents THF various alcohols or combinations thereof. Additionally it is preferred to use biodegradable polymers with a molecular weight between about 10 000 and about 200 000 Daltons. Such polymers degrade at rates that maintain sufficient mechanical and physical integrity over about 1 week at 37 C. in an aqueous environment.

Additionally a biodegradable polymer coated implantable mesh is described in which the biodegradable polymer layer i.e. the coating has a chemical composition that provides relatively good polymer drug miscibility. The polymer layer can contain between 1 80 drug at room temperature as well as between 1 95 2 80 2 50 5 40 5 30 5 25 and 10 20 drug or 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 or 10 drug as well as 5 increments from 10 95 i.e. 10 15 20 25 etc. In one embodiment the biodegradable polymer coating releases drug for at least 2 3 days. Such release is preferred for example when the drug is an analgesic to aide in localized pain management at the surgical site. Such loading and release characteristics can be also be obtained for drug polymer combinations that do not have good miscibility by using multiple layering techniques.

Additionally the biodegradable polymer for use with the mesh pouch has a chemical composition complementary to the drug so that the polymer layer can contain between 2 50 drug at room temperature. For certain types of drug the layer can contain as much as 80 90 drug and acts as drug reservoir or depot layer and drug release can be controlled by using multiple layers with varying amounts of drug from none to a few percent saturation or above the solubility limit for the drug in the polymer .

To achieve an analgesic affect the anesthetic and or analgesic should be delivered to the injured tissue shortly after surgery or tissue injury. A drug or drugs for inclusion in the coatings on the pouches of the invention include but are not limited to analgesics anti inflammatory agents anesthetics antimicrobial agents antifungal agents NSAIDs other biologics including proteins and nucleic acids and the like. Antimicrobial and antifungal agents can prevent the mesh pouch the device and or the surrounding tissue from being colonized by bacteria. One or more drugs can be incorporated into the polymer coatings on the mesh pouches of the invention.

In another embodiment a mesh pouch of the invention has a coating comprising an anesthetic such that the anesthetic elutes from the implanted coated mesh to the surrounding tissue of the surgical site for between 1 and 10 days which typically coincides with the period of acute surgical site pain. In another embodiment delivery of an antimicrobial drug via a mesh pouch of the invention can create an inhibition zone against bacterial growth and colonization surrounding the implant during the healing process e.g. usually about 30 days or less and or prevent undue fibrotic responses.

Using biodegradable polymer coatings avoids the issue of drug solubility impregnation or adherence in or to the underlying device since a coating having suitable chemical properties can be deposited onto the mesh optionally in concert with one or more drugs to provide for the release of relatively high concentrations of those drugs over extended periods of time. For example by modulating the chemical composition of the biodegradable polymer coating on the mesh pouch and the coating methodology a clinically efficacious amount of anesthetic drug can be loaded onto a mesh pouch to assure sufficient drug elution and to provide surgical site post operative pain relief for the patient.

To provide such post operative acute pain relief the mesh pouch should elute from about 30 mg to about 1000 mg of anesthetic over 1 10 days including e.g. about 30 50 100 200 400 500 750 or 1000 mg over that time period.

The pouch should elute clinically effective amounts of anesthetic during the acute post operative period when pain is most noticeable to the patient. This period defined in several clinical studies tends to be from 12 hours to 5 days after the operation with pain greatest around 24 hours and subsiding over a period of several days thereafter. Prior to 12 hours the patient is usually still under the influence of any local anesthetic injection given during the surgery itself. After the 5 day period most of the pain related to the surgery itself i.e. incisional pain and manipulation of fascia muscle nerves has resolved to a significant extent.

Bupivacaine has a known toxicity profile duration of onset and duration of action. Drug monographs recommend the daily dose not to exceed 400 mg. Those of skill in the art can determine the amount of anesthetic to include in a polymer coating or a hydrogel coating to achieve the desired amount and duration of pain relief. Moreover anesthetics that contain amines such as lidocaine and bupivacaine are hydrophobic and are difficult to load in sufficient amounts into the most commonly used plastics employed in the medical device industry such as polypropylene and other non resorbable thermoplastics. When in their hydrochloride salt form anesthetics cannot be effectively loaded in significant concentration into such non resorbable thermoplastics because of the mismatch in hydrophilicity of the two materials.

There are numerous reports of reduction or complete elimination of narcotic use and pain scores after open hernia repair during days 2 5 with concomitant use of catheter pain pump system. In these cases the pump delivers either a 0.25 or 0.5 solution of bupivacaine to the subfascial area Sanchez 2004 LeBlanc 2005 and Lau 2003 . At a 2 mL hour flow rate this translates into constant elution of approximately 120 mg of bupivacaine per day. However this system purportedly suffers from leakage so the 120 mg per day may only serve as an extremely rough guide for the amount of bupivacaine that should be delivered to provide adequate post operative pain relief

One of the most well characterized sustained release depot systems for post operative pain relief reported in the literature is a PLGA microsphere based sustained release formulation of bupivacaine. This formulation was developed and tested in humans for relief of subcutaneous pain as well as neural blocks. Human trials indicated that subcutaneous pain was relieved via injection of between 90 to 180 mg of bupivacaine which then eluted into the surrounding tissue over a 7 day period with higher concentrations in the initial 24 hour period followed by a gradual taper of the concentration. Other depot sustained release technologies have successfully suppressed post operative pain associated with inguinal hernia repair. For example external pumps and PLGA microsphere formulations have each purportedly release drug for approximately 72 hours.

To achieve loading at the lower limit of the elution profile for example one can choose a relatively hydrophilic biodegradable polymer and combine it with the anesthetic hydrochloride salt so that the anesthetic dissolves in the polymer at a concentration below the anesthetic s saturation limit. Such a formulation provides non burst release of anesthetic. To achieve loading at the upper limit of the elution profile one can spray coat a layer of an anesthetic polymer mixture that contains the anesthetic at a concentration above its saturation limit. In this formulation the polymer does not act as a control mechanism for release of the anesthetic but rather acts as a binder to hold the non dissolved anesthetic particles together and alters the crystallization kinetics of the drug. A second coating layer which may or may not contain further anesthetic is sprayed on top of the first layer. When present in the second coating the anesthetic concentration is at a higher ratio of polymer to anesthetic e.g. a concentration at which the anesthetic is soluble in the polymer layer.

The top layer thus can serve to control the release of the drug in the bottom layer aka depot layer via the drug polymer solubility ratio. Moreover it is possible to alter the release rate of the drug by changing the thickness of the polymer layer and changing the polymer composition according to its water uptake. A polymer that absorbs a significant amount of water within 24 hours will release the contents of the depot layer rapidly. However a polymer with limited water uptake or variable water uptake changes as a function of its stage of degradation will retard release of the water soluble anesthetic agent.

In one embodiment the biodegradable polymer coating releases drug for at least 2 3 days. Such release is preferred for example when the drug is an analgesic to aide in localized pain management at the surgical site. To achieve an analgesic affect the anesthetic and or analgesic should be delivered to the injured tissue shortly after surgery or tissue injury.

In another embodiment the coating comprises an anesthetic such that the anesthetic elutes from the implanted coated mesh to the surrounding tissue of the surgical site for between 1 and 10 days which typically coincides with the period of acute surgical site pain. In another embodiment delivery of an antimicrobial drug via a mesh of the invention can create an inhibition zone against bacterial growth and colonization surrounding the implant during the healing process e.g. usually about 7 30 days or less and or prevent undue fibrotic responses.

Using biodegradable polymer coatings avoids the issue of drug solubility impregnation or adherence in or to the underlying device since a coating having suitable chemical properties can be deposited onto the mesh pouch optionally in concert with one or more drugs to provide for the release of relatively high concentrations of those drugs over extended periods of time. For example by modulating the chemical composition of the biodegradable polymer coating and the coating methodology a clinically efficacious amount of anesthetic drug can be loaded onto a mesh pouch to assure sufficient drug elution and to provide surgical site post operative pain relief for the patient.

Other elution profiles with faster or slower drug release over a different longer or shorter times can be achieved by altering the thickness of the layers the amount of drug in the depot layer and the hydrophilicity of the biodegradable polymer.

The coatings on the pouches of the invention are formed from biodegradable polymeric layers that optionally contain one or more drugs. Methods of making biodegradable polymers are well known in the art.

polylactic acid polyglycolic acid and copolymers and mixtures thereof such as poly L lactide PLLA poly D L lactide PLA polyglycolic acid polyglycolide PGA poly L lactide co D L lactide PLLA PLA poly L lactide co glycolide PLLA PGA poly D L lactide co glycolide PLA PGA poly glycolide co trimethylene carbonate PGA PTMC poly D L lactide co caprolactone PLA PCL and poly glycolide co caprolactone PGA PCL 

polyethylene oxide PEO polydioxanone PDS polypropylene fumarate poly ethyl glutamate co glutamic acid poly tert butyloxy carbonylmethyl glutamate polycaprolactone PCL polycaprolactone co butylacrylate polyhydroxybutyrate PHBT and copolymers of polyhydroxybutyrate poly phosphazene polyphosphate ester poly amino acid polydepsipeptides maleic anhydride copolymers polyiminocarbonates poly 97.5 dimethyl trimethylene carbonate co 2.5 trimethylene carbonate poly orthoesters tyrosine derived polyarylates tyrosine derived polycarbonates tyrosine derived polyiminocarbonates tyrosine derived polyphosphonates polyethylene oxide polyethylene glycol polyalkylene oxides hydroxypropylmethylcellulose polysaccharides such as hyaluronic acid chitosan and regenerate cellulose and proteins such as gelatin and collagen and mixtures and copolymers thereof among others as well as PEG derivatives or blends of any of the foregoing.

In some embodiments biodegradable polymers of the invention have diphenol monomer units that are copolymerized with an appropriate chemical moiety to form a polyarylate a polycarbonate a polyiminocarbonate a polyphosphonate or any other polymer.

The preferred biodegradable polymers are tyrosine based polyarylates including those described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 980 449 5 099 060 5 216 115 5 317 077 5 587 507 5 658 995 5 670 602 6 048 521 6 120 491 6 319 492 6 475 477 6 602 497 6 852 308 7 056 493 RE37 160E and RE37 795E as well as those described in U.S. Patent Publication Nos. 2002 0151668 2003 0138488 2003 0216307 2004 0254334 2005 0165203 and those described in PCT Publication Nos. W099 52962 WO 01 49249 WO 01 49311 WO 03 091337. These patents and publications also disclose other polymers containing tyrosine derived diphenol monomer units or other diphenol monomer units including polyarylates polycarbonates polyiminocarbonates polythiocarbonates polyphosphonates and polyethers.

Other biodegradable polymers suitable for use in the methods of the present invention include those described in U.S. application Ser. Nos. 12 499 399 12 500 852 12 564 736 12 598 559 12 641 996 as well as those described in U.S. Patent Publication No. 2009 0088548.

Likewise the foregoing patents and publications describe methods for making these polymers some methods of which may be applicable to synthesizing other biodegradable polymers. Finally the foregoing patents and publications also describe blends and copolymers with polyalkylene oxides including polyethylene glycol PEG . All such polymers are contemplated for use in the present invention.

The representative structures for the foregoing polymers are provide in the above cited patents and publications which are incorporated herein by reference.

As used herein DTE is the diphenol monomer desaminotyrosyl tyrosine ethyl ester DTBn is the diphenol monomer desaminotyrosyl tyrosine benzyl ester DT is the corresponding free acid form namely desaminotyrosyl tyrosine. BTE is the diphenol monomer 4 hydroxy benzoic acid tyrosyl ethyl ester BT is the corresponding free acid form namely 4 hydroxy benzoic acid tyrosine.

P22 is a polyarylate copolymer produced by condensation of DTE with succinate. P22 10 P22 15 P22 20 P22 xx etc. represents copolymers produced by condensation of 1 a mixture of DTE and DT using the indicated percentage of DT i.e. 10 15 20 and xx DT etc. with 2 succinate.

Additional preferred polyarylates are copolymers of desaminotyrosyl tyrosine DT and an desaminotyrosyl tyrosyl ester DT ester wherein the copolymer comprises from about 0.001 DT to about 80 DT and the ester moiety can be a branched or unbranched alkyl alkylaryl or alkylene ether group having up to 18 carbon atoms any group of which can optionally have a polyalkylene oxide therein. Similarly another group of polyarylates are the same as the foregoing but the desaminotyrosyl moiety is replaced by a 4 hydroxybenzoyl moiety. Preferred DT or BT contents include those copolymers with from about 1 to about 30 from about 5 to about 30 from about 10 to about 30 DT or BT. Preferred diacids used informing the polyarylates include succinate glutarate and glycolic acid.

Additional biodegradable polymers useful for the present invention are the biodegradable resorbable polyarylates and polycarbonates disclosed in U.S. provisional application Ser. No. 60 733 988 filed Nov. 3 2005 and in its corresponding PCT Appln. No. PCT US06 42944 filed Nov. 3 2006. These polymers include but are not limited to BTE glutarate DTM glutarate DT propylamide glutarate DT glycineamide glutarate BTE succinate BTM succinate BTE succinate PEG BTM succinate PEG DTM succinate PEG DTM succinate DT N hydroxysuccinimide succinate DT glucosamine succinate DT glucosamine glutarate DT PEG ester succinate DT PEG amide succinate DT PEG ester glutarate and DT PEG ester succinate.

The most preferred polyarylates are the DTE DT succinate family of polymers e.g. the P22 xx family of polymers having from 0 50 5 50 5 40 1 30 or 10 30 DT including but not limited to about 1 2 5 10 15 20 25 27.5 30 35 40 45 and 50 DT.

Additionally the polyarylate polymers used in the present invention can have from 0.1 99.9 PEG diacid to promote the degradation process as described in U.S. provisional application Ser. No. 60 733 988. Blends of polyarylates or other biodegradable polymers with polyarylates are also preferred.

Any drug biological agent or active ingredient compatible with the process of preparing the mesh pouches of the invention can be incorporated into one or more layers of the biodegradable polymeric coatings on the mesh. Doses of such drugs and agents are know in the art. Those of skill in the art can readily determine the amount of a particular drug to include in the coatings on the meshes of the invention.

Examples of drugs suitable for use with the present invention include anesthetics antibiotics antimicrobials anti inflammatory agents fibrosis inhibiting agents anti scarring agents leukotriene inhibitors antagonists cell growth inhibitors and the like. As used herein drugs is used to include all types of therapeutic agents whether small molecules or large molecules such as proteins nucleic acids and the like. The drugs of the invention can be used alone or in combination.

Any pharmaceutically acceptable form of the drugs of the present invention can be employed in the present invention e.g. the free base or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester thereof. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts for instance include sulfate lactate acetate stearate hydrochloride tartrate maleate citrate phosphate and the like.

Examples of non steroidal anti inflammatories include but are not limited to naproxen ketoprofen ibuprofen as well as diclofenac celecoxib sulindac diflunisal piroxicam indomethacin etodolac meloxicam r flurbiprofen mefenamic nabumetone tolmetin and sodium salts of each of the foregoing ketorolac bromethamine ketorolac bromethamine tromethamine choline magnesium trisalicylate rofecoxib valdecoxib lumiracoxib etoricoxib aspirin salicylic acid and its sodium salt salicylate esters of alpha beta gamma tocopherols and tocotrienols and all their D L and racemic isomers and the methyl ethyl propyl isopropyl n butyl sec butyl t butyl esters of acetylsalicylic acid.

Examples of anesthetics include but are not limited to lidocaine bupivacaine and mepivacaine. Further examples of analgesics anesthetics and narcotics include but are not limited to acetaminophen clonidine benzodiazepine the benzodiazepine antagonist flumazenil lidocaine tramadol carbamazepine meperidine zaleplon trimipramine maleate buprenorphine nalbuphine pentazocain fentanyl propoxyphene hydromorphone methadone morphine levorphanol and hydrocodone. Local anesthetics have weak antibacterial properties and can play a dual role in the prevention of acute pain and infection.

Examples of antimicrobials include but are not limited to triclosan chlorhexidine rifampin minocycline or other tetracycline derivatives vancomycin daptomycin gentamycin cephalosporins and the like. In preferred embodiments the coatings contain rifampin and another antimicrobial agent preferably that agent is a tetracycline derivative. In another preferred embodiment the coatings contain a cephalosporin and another antimicrobial agent. Preferred combinations include rifampin and minocycline rifampin and gentamycin and rifampin and minocycline. As used herein the term antibiotic and antibacterial can be used interchangeably with the term antimicrobial.

Further antimicrobials include aztreonam cefotetan and its disodium salt loracarbef cefoxitin and its sodium salt cefazolin and its sodium salt cefaclor ceftibuten and its sodium salt ceftizoxime ceftizoxime sodium salt cefoperazone and its sodium salt cefuroxime and its sodium salt cefuroxime axetil cefprozil ceftazidime cefotaxime and its sodium salt cefadroxil ceftazidime and its sodium salt cephalexin cefamandole nafate cefepime and its hydrochloride sulfate and phosphate salt cefdinir and its sodium salt ceftriaxone and its sodium salt cefixime and its sodium salt cefpodoxime proxetil meropenem and its sodium salt imipenem and its sodium salt cilastatin and its sodium salt azithromycin clarithromycin dirithromycin erythromycin and hydrochloride sulfate or phosphate salts ethylsuccinate and stearate forms thereof clindamycin clindamycin hydrochloride sulfate or phosphate salt lincomycin and hydrochloride sulfate or phosphate salt thereof tobramycin and its hydrochloride sulfate or phosphate salt streptomycin and its hydrochloride sulfate or phosphate salt vancomycin and its hydrochloride sulfate or phosphate salt neomycin and its hydrochloride sulfate or phosphate salt acetyl sulfisoxazole colistimethate and its sodium salt quinupristin dalfopristin amoxicillin ampicillin and its sodium salt clavulanic acid and its sodium or potassium salt penicillin G penicillin G benzathine or procaine salt penicillin G sodium or potassium salt carbenicillin and its disodium or indanyl disodium salt piperacillin and its sodium salt ticarcillin and its disodium salt sulbactam and its sodium salt moxifloxacin ciprofloxacin ofloxacin levofloxacins norfloxacin gatifloxacin trovafloxacin mesylate alatrofloxacin mesylate trimethoprim sulfamethoxazole demeclocycline and its hydrochloride sulfate or phosphate salt doxycycline and its hydrochloride sulfate or phosphate salt minocycline and its hydrochloride sulfate or phosphate salt tetracycline and its hydrochloride sulfate or phosphate salt oxytetracycline and its hydrochloride sulfate or phosphate salt chlortetracycline and its hydrochloride sulfate or phosphate salt metronidazole dapsone atovaquone rifabutin linezolide polymyxin B and its hydrochloride sulfate or phosphate salt sulfacetamide and its sodium salt and clarithromycin.

Examples of antifungals include amphotericin B pyrimethamine flucytosine caspofungin acetate fluconazole griseofulvin terbinafin and its hydrochloride sulfate or phosphate salt ketoconazole micronazole clotrimazole econazole ciclopirox naftifine and itraconazole.

Other drugs that can be incorporated into the coatings on the mesh pouches of the invention include but are not limited to keflex acyclovir cephradine malphalen procaine ephedrine adriamycin daunomycin plumbagin atropine quinine digoxin quinidine biologically active peptides cephradine cephalothin cis hydroxy L proline melphalan penicillin V aspirin nicotinic acid chemodeoxycholic acid chlorambucil paclitaxel sirolimus cyclosporins 5 fluorouracil and the like.

Examples of anti inflammatory compound include but are not limited to anecortive acetate tetrahydrocortisol 4 9 11 pregnadien 17.alpha. 21 diol 3 20 dione and its 21 acetate salt 11 epicortisol 17.alpha. hydroxyprogesterone tetrahydrocortexolone cortisona cortisone acetate hydrocortisone hydrocortisone acetate fludrocortisone fludrocortisone acetate fludrocortisone phosphate prednisone prednisolone prednisolone sodium phosphate methylprednisolone methylprednisolone acetate methylprednisolone sodium succinate triamcinolone triamcinolone 16 21 diacetate triamcinolone acetonide and its 21 acetate 21 disodium phosphate and 21 hemisuccinate forms triamcinolone benetonide triamcinolone hexacetonide fluocinolone and fluocinolone acetate dexamethasone and its 21 acetate 21 3 3 dimethylbutyrate 21 phosphate disodium salt 21 diethylaminoacetate 21 isonicotinate 21 dipropionate and 21 palmitate forms betamethasone and its 21 acetate 21 adamantoate 17 benzoate 17 21 dipropionate 17 valerate and 21 phosphate disodium salts beclomethasone beclomethasone dipropionate diflorasone diflorasone diacetate mometasone furoate and acetazolamide.

Examples of leukotriene inhibitors antagonists include but are not limited to leukotriene receptor antagonists such as acitazanolast iralukast montelukast pranlukast verlukast zafirlukast and zileuton.

Another useful drug that can be incorporated into the coatings of the invention is sodium 2 mercaptoethane sulfonate Mesna . Mesna has been shown to diminish myofibroblast formation in animal studies of capsular contracture with breast implants Ajmal et al. 2003 Plast. Reconstr. Surg. 112 1455 1461 and may thus act as an anti fibrosis agent.

Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that any of the foregoing disclosed drugs can be used in combination or mixture in coatings of the present invention.

In accordance with the invention one method to coat the mesh with a stiffening agent is to spray a solution of polymer to coat the filaments or fibers of the mesh to temporarily immobilize contact points of the filaments or fibers of said mesh. This method comprises a preparing a coating solution comprising a solvent and the stiffening agent b spraying a mesh one or more times to provide an amount of solution on the mesh to produce a coating having a thickness and placement sufficient to temporarily immobilize contact points of the filaments or fibers of the mesh that coats filaments or fibers and c drying the mesh to produce said coating. An example of ratio of coating thickness to polymer coating is shown in the scanning electron micrograph of . When used with a drug or combination of drugs the drug is included in the coating solution at the desired concentration.

Spraying can be accomplished by known methods. For example the coating can be applied to the entire mesh or to that portion of the mesh necessary to stiffen it. One technique is to dip the mesh in the coating material another is to push the mesh through rollers that transfer the coating on the mesh. Spraying the mesh with microdroplets is also effective. Techniques for selectively coating only those areas necessary to stiffen the mesh include deposition the coating through a template or mask that exposes only the desired areas of coverage for the coating including dispensing the coating with micro needles or similar means. More preferably the coating can be applied using a photoresist like mask that expose the desired portions applying the coating over the photomask and the removing the photomask.

The coated meshes can be laser cut to produce the desired shaped and sized pouches coverings and the like. The pouches can be shaped to fit relatively snugly or more loosely around the implantable medical device. Two pieces can be sealed by heat by ultrasound or other method known in the art leaving one side open to permit insertion of the device at the time of the surgical procedure and to allow the leads or other wires to extend out of the pouch stick out protrude.

Additionally the mesh pouches of the invention have a space or opening sufficient to allow the leads from the device to pass through the pouch. The number of spaces or opening in the pouch that are provided can match the number and placement of the leads or other tubes extending from the CRM or other IMD as applicable for the relevant device.

In preferred embodiments the shape and size of the pouch of the invention is similar to that of the CRM or IMD with which it is being used and the pouch has a sufficient number of openings or spaces to accommodate the leads or tubing of the particular CRM or other IMD.

The pouches of the invention are porous from the mesh but can have additional porosity. For example additional porosity can be imparted by laser cutting additional holes in the coated mesh porous pouches. Hence the pouch need not completely encase or surround the IMD. An IMD is thus substantially encapsulated encased surrounded or covered when the pouch can hold the device and at least 20 30 50 60 75 80 85 90 95 or 98 of the device is within the pouch. Porous pouches and partially encased pouches permit contact with tissue and body fluids and are particularly useful with monopole CRM or other IMD devices. Porosity will contribute to the percentage of the IMD covered by the pouch. That is an IMD is considered to be 50 covered if it is completely surrounded by a pouch that is constructed of a film with 50 voids or holes.

The CRMs and other IMDs used with the pouches of the invention include but are not limited to pacemakers defibrillators implantable access systems neurostimulators other stimulation devices ventricular assist devices infusion pumps or other implantable devices or implantable components thereof for delivering medication hydrating solutions or other fluids intrathecal delivery systems pain pumps or any other implantable system to provide drugs or electrical stimulation to a body part.

Implantable cardiac rhythm management devices CRMs are a form of IMDs and are life long medical device implants. CRMs ensure the heart continually beats at a steady rate. There are two main types of CRM devices implantable cardiac rhythm management devices and implantable defibrillators.

The ICDs or implantable cardioverter defibrillator and pacemakers share common elements. They are permanent implants inserted through relatively minor surgical procedures. Each has 2 basic components a generator and a lead. The generator is usually placed in a subcutaneous pocket below the skin of the breastbone and the lead is threaded down and into the heart muscle or ventricle. The common elements of placement and design result in shared morbidities including lead extrusion lead tip fibrosis and infection. Although infection rates are purportedly quite low infection is a serious problem as any bacterial contamination of the lead generator or surgical site can travel directly to the heart via bacterial spreading along the generator and leads. Endocarditis or an infection of the heart has reported mortality rates as high as 33 .

An ICD is an electronic device that constantly monitors heart rate and rhythm. When it detects a fast abnormal heart rhythm it delivers energy to the heart muscle. This action causes the heart to beat in a normal rhythm again in an attempt to return it to a sinus rhythm.

The ICD has two parts the lead s and a pulse generator. The lead s monitor the heart rhythm and deliver energy used for pacing and or defibrillation see below for definitions . The lead s are directly connected to the heart and the generator. The generator houses the battery and a tiny computer. Energy is stored in the battery until it is needed. The computer receives information on cardiac function via the leads and reacts to that information on the basis of its programming.

The different types of ICDs include but are not limited to single chamber ICDs in which a lead is attached in the right ventricle. If needed energy is delivered to the ventricle to help it contract normally dual chamber ICDs in which the leads are attached in the right atrium and the right ventricle. Energy is delivered first to the right atrium and then to the right ventricle to ensure that the heart beats in a normal sequence and biventricular ICDs in which leads are attached in the right atrium the right ventricle and the left ventricle. This arrangement helps the heart beat in a more balanced way and is specifically used for patients with heart failure.

A pacemaker is a small device that sends electrical impulses to the heart muscle to maintain a suitable heart rate and rhythm. A pacemaker can also be used to treat fainting spells syncope congestive heart failure and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Pacemakers are generally implanted under the skin of the chest during a minor surgical procedure. The pacemaker is also comprised of leads and a battery driven pulse generator. The pulse generator resides under the skin of the chest. The leads are wires that are threaded through the veins into the heart and implanted into the heart muscle. They send impulses from the pulse generator to the heart muscle as well as sense the heart s electrical activity.

Each impulse causes the heart to contract. The pacemaker may have one to three leads depending on the type of pacemaker needed to treat your heart problem.

The different types of pacemakers include but are not limited to single chamber pacemakers which use one lead in the upper chambers atria or lower chambers ventricles of the heart dual chamber pacemakers which use one lead in the atria and one lead in the ventricles of your heart and biventricular pacemakers which use three leads one placed in the right atrium one placed in the right ventricle and one placed in the left ventricle via the coronary sinus vein .

The pouches of the invention can thus be designed to fit a wide range of pacemakers and implantable defibrillators from a variety of manufacturers see Table 1 . Sizes of the CRMs vary and typically size ranges are listed in Table 1.

Implantable neurostimulators are similar to pacemakers in that the devices generate electrical impulses. These devices send electrical signals via leads to the spine and brain to treat pain and other neurological disorders. For example when the leads are implanted in the spine the neurostimulation can be used to treat chronic pain especially back and spinal pain when the leads are implanted in the brain the neurostimulation can be used to treat epilepsy and essential tremor including the tremors associated with Parkinson s disease and other neurological disorders. Neurostimulation can be used to treat severe chronic nausea and vomiting as well as urological disorders. For the former electrical impulses are sent to the stomach for the latter the electrical impulses are sent to the sacral nerves in the lower back. The implant location of the neurostimulator varies by application but in all cases is placed under the skin and is susceptible to infection at the time of implantation and post implantation. Likewise reintervention and replacement of batteries in the neurostimulators can occur at regular intervals.

The pouches of the invention can thus be designed to fit a wide range of neurostimulators from a variety of manufacturers see Table 2 . Sizes of the neurostimulators vary and typically size ranges are listed in Table 2.

Reported infection rates for first implantation are usually quite low less than 1 however they increase dramatically when a reintervention is necessary. Reintervention often requires the removal of the generator portion of the ICD pacemaker neurostimulator drug pump or other IMD and having a resorbable pouch enhances that process.

Other IMDs for use in the invention are drug pumps especially pain pumps and intrathecal delivery systems. These devices generally consist of an implantable drug pump and a catheter for dispensing the drug. The implantable drug pump is similar in size to the neurostimulators and CRMs. Further implantable medical devices include but are not limited to implantable EGM monitors implantable access systems or any other implantable system that utilizes battery power to provide drugs or electrical stimulation to a body part.

Antimicrobial efficacy of the pouches of the invention can be demonstrated in laboratory in vitro for example using the modified Kirby Bauer Antibiotic Susceptibility Test Disk Diffusion Test in vitro to assess bacterial zones of inhibitions or by the Boburden Test Method in vitro . In such experiments a small disk of the pouch is cut and used. Antimicrobial efficacy can also be demonstrated in vivo using animal models of infection. For example a pouch and device combination are implanted in an animal the surgical site is deliberately infected with a pathogenic microorganism such as or and the animal is monitored for signs of infection and inflammation. At sacrifice the animal is assessed for inflammation fibrosis and bacterial colonization of the pouch device and the surrounding tissues.

In the in vitro study the efficacy of the antibacterial pouch in preventing or retarding the formation of biofilms was assessed using a Center for Disease Control bioreactor model and confirmed by Scanning Electron Microscopy.

A reproducible and quantitative model of device infection is used in determining the efficacy of these types of products. The rabbit is frequently chosen for implant studies and its size at 2.5 kg or greater can accommodate up to two subcutaneous implants the size of a typical pacing device. The two layer closure of the pocket along with a separate incision site for bacterial inoculation assures containment of the infection to the pocket with no observable cross contamination to the contralateral pocket nor the implant insertion site. Examination of the explanted devices in the absence of the pouch indicates the successful development of an infection as evidenced by positive bacterial cultures of the pocket and the device as well as the presence of pus in many cases. In addition a biofilm like material is present on the device. The ability to sample the explanted device and pocket by the multiple swabbing technique assures a thorough sampling of all devices areas and the additional vortex sonication process allows additional sampling of adherent bacteria in a quantitative manner that would allow demonstration of log reduction of the number of bacteria present.

It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that various omissions additions and modifications may be made to the invention described above without departing from the scope of the invention and all such modifications and changes are intended to fall within the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. All references patents patent applications or other documents cited are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety.

A 1 solution containing a ratio of 1 1 8 rifampin minocycline polymer in 9 1 tetrahydrofuranimethanol was spray coated onto a surgical mesh by repeatedly passing the spray nozzle over each side of the mesh until each side was coated with at least 10 mg of antimicrobial embedded polymer. Samples were dried for at least 72 hours in a vacuum oven before use.

The polymers are the polyarylates P22 xx having xx being the DT indicated in Table 3. In Table 3 Rxx or Mxx indicates the percentage by weight of rifampin R or minocycline M in the coating i.e. R10M10 means 10 rifampin and 10 minocycline hydrochloride with 80 of the indicated polymer. Table 3 provides a list of these polyarylates with their DT content exact sample sizes final coating weights and drug coating weights.

The ZOI for antibiotic coated meshes was determined according to the Kirby Bauer method. or were inoculated into Triplicate Soy Broth TSB from a stock culture and incubated at 37 C. until the turbidity reached McFarland 0.5 standard 1 2 hours . Plates were prepared by streaking the bacteria onto on Mueller Hinton II agar MHA three times each time swabbing the plate from left to right to cover the entire plate and rotating the plate between swabbing to change direction of the streaks.

A pre cut piece 1 2 cm of spray coated mesh was firmly pressed into the center of pre warmed Mueller Hinton II agar plates and incubated at 37 C. Pieces were transferred every 24 h to fresh pre warmed Mger Hinton II agar plates using sterile forceps. The distance from the sample to the outer edge of the inhibition zone was measured every 24 h and is reported on the bottom row in Table 4 and 5 for each sample. The top row for each sample represents difference between the diameter of the ZOI and the diagonal of the mesh. Table 4 shows the ZOI results for meshes placed on lawns and Table 5 show s the ZOI results for meshes placed on lawns. Additionally three pieces were removed every 24 h for analysis of residual minocycline and rifampin.

Table 6 shows that the duration of in vitro drug release increases with the hydrophilicity of the resorbable polymer. Solvent cast films were soaked in PBS and antibiotic release was monitored by HPLC.

For the experiment shown in a first depot coating containing 540 mg of bupivacaine HCl as a 4 solution with 1 P22 27.5 polyarylate in a mixture of THF Methanol was spray coated onto a mesh. A second layer consisting of 425 mg of the same polyarylate alone was deposited on top of the first layer.

For the experiment shown in a solution of approximately 4 bupivacaine in DTE DT succinate polymer having 27.5 DT was sprayed onto a mesh using the indicted number of passes followed by the indicated number of dips into a solution of the same polyarylate in THF Methanol 9 1 

Pre weighed pieces of mesh were placed in PBS at 37 C. and a sample withdrawn periodically for determination of bupivacaine by HPLC. shows the cumulative release of bupivacaine into PBS from the multilayer polyarylate coating as a function of time. Nearly 80 of the bupivacaine had been released after 25 hours of incubation.

Rats with jugular cannulas for pharmacokinetic studies were surgically implanted with a 1 2 cm P22 27.5 polyarylate coated mesh containing 7.5 mg of bupivacaine cm. Before surgery baseline pin prick responses to nociception were measured at the planned surgical incision site and baseline blood samples were obtained. A hernia was created by incision into the peritoneal cavity during via subcostal laparotomy and a Lichtenstein non tension repair was performed using the bupivacaine impregnated polyarylate coated mesh. Blood samples were drawn at 3 6 24 48 72 96 and 120 hours after implantation. Prior to drawing blood the rats were subjected to a pin prick test to assess dermal anesthesia from bupivacaine release. The behavioral results indicate that moderate levels of dermal anesthesia appeared from 3 to 120 hours with the amount at 6 and 48 hours significantly above baseline p

A polypropylene mesh was spray coated as described in the first paragraph of Example 2. Individual meshes were cut to 1 2 cm individually packaged and sterilized by gamma irradiation. The mesh was loaded with 7.5 mg cmof bupivacaine HCl for a total of 15 mg of bupivacaine loaded per 1 2 cm mesh.

Eight male rats 59 63 days old and weighing from 250 275 g were obtained from Taconic Laboratory Germantown N.Y. with an external jugular cannula SU007 . Each rat was anesthetized with isoflurane to a plane of surgical anesthesia as determined by the absence of a response to toe pinch and corneal reflex and maintained at 2 isoflurane during surgery. The subcostal site was shaved washed with 10 providone iodine and rinsed with 70 ethanol. Sterile drapes were used to maintain an aseptic surgical field and sterilized instruments were re sterilized between rats using a hot bead sterilizer. A 2.5 cm skin incision was made 0.5 cm caudal to and parallel to the last rib. The underlying subcutaneous space 1 cm on both sides of the incision was loosened to accommodate the mesh. A 2 cm incision was made through the muscle layers along the same plane as the skin incision penetrating the peritoneal cavity and the peritoneum was closed with 6 0 Prolene sutures in a continuous suture pattern. Rather than suturing the inner and outer oblique muscles using the classic tension closure a Lichtenstein non tension repair was undertaken using the mesh as the repair material. The mesh prepared in Section A was positioned over the incisional hernia and sutured into the internal and external oblique muscles using 6 0 Prolene sutures. The subcutaneous tissue was then sutured in a continuous pattern with 6 to 8 6 0 Prolene sutures to prevent the rats from accessing the mesh followed by 6 to 8 skin sutures. Total surgical time was 10 min for anesthetic induction and preparation and 20 min for the surgery.

The rats were allowed to recover in their home cages and monitored post surgically until they awoke. Blood samples were drawn for determination of plasma bupivacaine levels at 3 6 24 48 72 96 and 120 hours after surgery. The rats were assessed for guarding the incision and the incision was assessed for signs of inflammation swelling or other signs of infection. No rats exhibited toxicity or seizures or were in a moribund state from infection or the release of bupivacaine.

The nociceptive pin prick test was used to assess dermal anesthesia Morrow and Casey 1983 Kramer et al. 1996 Haynes et al. 2000 Khodorova and Strichartz 2000 . Holding the rat in one hand the other hand was used to apply the pin. Nociception was indicated by a skin flinch or by a nocifensive i.e. startle or attempt to escape response from the rat. While the presence of the mesh interfered with the skin flinch response nocifensive response remained completely intact.

Baseline nocifensive responses to 10 applications of the pin from a Buck neurological hammer were obtained at the planned incision site prior to mesh implantation. After surgery the pin prick test was applied rostral to the incision. The nerves caudal to the incision were transected during the procedure and therefore did not respond to pin application and were not tested. The post implantation test was repeated using the same force as before surgery and with 10 pin applications and the percent inhibition of nocifensive responding was calculated by 1 test responses 10 base responses 100. The data was analyzed using repeated measures ANOVA followed by post hoc analysis using the Tukey s test. The results are shown in .

A. Meshes prepared as described in Example 1 were subject to stiffness testing according to the method of TyRx Pharma Inc. Mesh Stiffness Test Protocol ATM 0410 based on ASTM 4032 94. Meshes were sealed in foil bags before sterilization using gamma irradiation. Where indicated by Gamma N the bags were flushed with nitrogen before sealing and irradiation. Meshes were tested in triplicate. The results are shown in Table 7 and indicate that aging does not affect the flexibility of the coated meshes.

B. Meshes were prepared by spray coating a solution of P22 27.5 onto a PPM3 mesh as generally described in Example 1. The coated meshes were cut into 3 by 3 squares to provide 80 mg polymer coating per square. The squares were incubated in 1 L of 0.01 M PBS for the indicated times then removed for stiffness testing as described in part A of this Example. All experiments were done in triplicate. As a control non coated PPM3 meshes were incubated under the same conditions. The stiffness of the control when dry was 1.42 0.23 N when dry and 1.12 N after both 1 hour and 24 hour in 0.01 M PBS. The results are shown in .

A tyrosine polyarylate coated mesh without antibiotics i.e. only a polymer coating was prepared as described in Example 1 and omitting the antibiotics in the spray coating solution. An optical image of the coated mesh is shown in the top left panel of at a magnification that readily shows the woven nature of the mesh and the contact points of the filaments. A close up of a contact point is shown in the bottom left panel of and demonstrates that the coating immobilizes the contact points of the mesh filaments. The right panel of is a scanning electron micrograph of a coated filament.

The antimicrobial pacemaker pouch is a dual component resorbable and non resorbable sterile prosthesis designed to hold a pacemaker pulse generator or defibrillator to create a stable environment when implanted in the body. The pouch is constructed of a non resorbable mesh comprised of knitted filaments of polypropylene and a bioresorbable polyarylate coating on the mesh containing the antimicrobial agents rifampin and minocycline. The antimicrobial agents are released for a minimum of 7 days followed by full resorption of the polymer leaving a light weight permanent mesh incorporated into the tissue and providing a stable environment for the pacemaker or defibrillator see .

The mesh for the pouch can be prepared in the same manner as antimicrobial polymer coated surgical meshes described in U.S. provisional application 60 771 827 filed Feb. 8 2006. The pouch is constructed of two pieces of flat coated mesh placed one on top of the other and sealed and cut into the shape using an ultrasonic weld. This results in the formation of a pouch 2.5 2.75 in size sealed on approximately 3 and one half sides and coated with approximately 50 to 75 mg of polymer and 6.1 mg of rifampin and 6.1 mg of minocycline of 86.11 g cmfor each drug . Such pouches can be designed to fit a wide range of pacemakers implantable defibrillators neurostimulators and other IMDs see Table 1 and 2 .

Antimicrobial efficacy was demonstrated in laboratory in vitro and in animal in vivo testing. Results indicate that coated mesh pouch is effective in preventing microbial colonization of the mesh and generator see Table 8 .

Histological results from a dog study show that the pouch is rapidly incorporated into the tissue surrounding the pacemaker facilitating the formation of a stable environment for holding the pacemaker .

In the in vitro study the efficacy of the antibacterial pouch in preventing or inhibiting the formation of biofilms was assessed using a Center for Disease Control bioreactor model and confirmed by Scanning Electron Microscopy.

CDC Biofilm Reactor System The CDC biofilm reactor CDC BR system was developed by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Atlanta Ga. to assess biofilm formation and prevention on surfaces and devices. Two CDC BR model CBR90 bioreactors Biosurface Technologies Corporation Bozeman Mont. USA were used in this study. The CDC BR consists of a 1 L bioreactor vessel with eight polypropylene coupon holders that can accommodate three 0.5 inch diameter sample coupons suspended from the reactor lid. A liquid growth medium enters through the top of the vessel lid and exits via aside arm discharge port. A magnetic stir bar incorporating a mixing blade provides fluid mixing and surface shear. The CDC BR system which forms the basis of a standard method for the growth of biofilms on polycarbonate surfaces was adapted to test the ability of to form biofilms on titanium coupons mock CRMs in an antibacterial envelope or non antibiotic containing control envelopes.

Two bioreactors were used in the experiments described in this study. All experiments in the study were repeated at least three times. One reactor experimental was used to evaluate biofilm formation on titanium coupons enclosed in the antibiotic containing envelope. whereas the other control was used to assess biofilm formation on coupons in control envelopes that contained no antibiotics. It was necessary to use two separate reactors for these experiments because the antibiotics in the antibacterial envelope are slowly released and easily diffuse in aqueous solutions.

In the experimental reactor two sterile titanium coupons were enclosed in the antibacterial envelopes and two others were left unenclosed. Likewise. in the control reactor. two titanium coupons were left exposed whereas the remaining two coupons were enclosed in non antibiotic containing envelopes made from the same polypropylene as used in the antibacterial envelope. Unused ports in the lid assemblies of both reactors were plugged with sterile rubber stoppers.

Bacteria ATCC strain 33591 was used in this study. Unless otherwise specified strain 33591 was grown in tryptic soy broth TSB Fisher Scientific Waltham. M.A. USA or on TSB agar plates. Bacteria were grown at room temperature for all biofilm experiments and at 37 C. for plate count experiments.

Antimicrobial pouch The antimicrobial pouch used in these studies was the AIGIS antimicrobial envelope manufactured by TyRx Pharma Inc. This antimicrobial pouch consists of a polypropylene mesh with a coating of 10 minocycline hydrochloride and rifampin in a DTE 27.5 DT succinate polyarylate which was manufactured and formed into a pouch as described in Example 6.

Biofilm formation experiments Inocula for the bioreactors were prepared by inoculating 800 mL of sterile 10 strength TSB with overnight cultures of strain ATCC 33591 and by growing these cultures at room temperature with continuous stirring for 24 hours. After incubation 400 mL of the culture was added to a sterile experimental reactor and the remaining 400 mL was added to a second sterile control reactor. Sterile 1 TSB was continuously added to each reactor at a rate of 2.7 mL min using a peristaltic pump.

Reactor fluid samples were removed via the exit ports from both reactors after incubation at room temperature for 24 48 and 72 hours. After 72 hours of incubation lid assemblies from both reactors were removed and transferred to beakers containing 400 mL of sterile phosphate buffered saline PBS and stirred washed for 5 minutes at room temperature. After the wash the control and experimental coupons and envelopes were removed for microbiological analysis.

Microbiological analysis After removal from the reactors individual control and experimental envelopes or titanium coupons were placed in 10 mL of PBS and sequentially vortexed 30 seconds at the maximum setting of Maxi max II Barnstead Thermolyne stirrer Dubuque Iowa. USA sonicated for 2 minutes and then vortexed again to disaggregate biofilms and create bacterial suspensions. The bacterial suspensions were serially diluted in sterile PBS and the dilutions were spread on Tryptic Soy Agar plates that were incubated at 37 C for 24 hours. The number of colony fanning units CFU per sample was determined using standard microbial spread plate count methods. The number of CFU associated with the titanium coupons was expressed as CFU cm the number of bacteria associated with the control and experimental envelopes as CPU envelope and the number of bacteria in the reactor fluids as CFU mL. Statistical analysis of bacterial counts obtained from the control and treatment reactors was conducted using a 2 tailed Student s t test.

Scanning electron microscopy SEM Exposed and unexposed titanium coupons and experimental and control envelopes were fixed with neutral buffered formalin dehydrated with a graded ethanol series and then air dried. The envelopes were sputter coated with iridium to make them conductive for SEM analyses. SEM examination of the coupons and envelopes was performed using a Zeiss Supra SSVP field emission SEM Thornwood N.Y. USA .

Biofilm formation with 33591 ATCC strain 33591 The results from the SEM experiments revealed that ATCC strain 33591 formed biofilms in the CDC BR model system. This verified the utility of using the CDC BR model system to evaluate the effects of the antibacterial envelope on the ability of strain 33591 to form biofilms on mock CRMs.

Microbiological analysis The analysis of the antibacterial and control envelopes after 72 hours of incubation revealed that there was a marked and statistically significant difference p

The reduction in CFU m L in reactor fluid samples taken from the experimental and control reactors was confirmed by visual inspection of the reactors after 72 hours of incubation. A There was a marked reduction in bacterial growth turbidity in the experimental reactor as compared with the control reactor.

SEM analysis The SEM analysis revealed that after 72 hours of incubation there was an observable difference in the staphylococcal biofilms formed on the titanium coupons and envelopes from the control and experimental reactors. Exposed titanium coupons taken from the control reactors were colonized by large numbers of actively dividing staphylococci that formed biofilms. Biofilms also formed on the control enveloped titanium coupons but to a lesser extent. Far fewer bacteria were found on both exposed and enveloped titanium coupons from the experimental reactors.

The differences in biofilm formation on the experimental antibacterial envelope and control envelopes were more pronounced. The control envelopes were heavily colonized with grape like clusters of dividing staphylococci A and B . In marked contrast staphylococci. were rarely observed on the antibacterial envelopes and when present they were typically observed as single isolated bacterial cells. C and D .

Bacteria Bacterial strains were obtained from ATCC American Type Culture Collection ATCC 35984 ATCC 27840 ATCC 25922 and ATCC 43608 . One day prior to implant an aliquot of a specific strain was thawed from frozen stock and grown overnight in liquid trypticase soy broth TSB for 16 19 hours. The cultures were washed in saline and the culture concentration was determined by spectrophotometry and compared to a pre determined growth curve. Each culture was brought to the desired concentration and prepared in individual 1 mL syringes for inoculation. The bacterial inoculum was checked by plating dilutions of the final culture solution as well as plating dilutions from one additional syringe post surgery.

Rabbit Infection Model New Zealand white rabbits. at least 2.5 kg and specific pathogen free were weighed and anesthetized using given intramuscular IM acepromazine 1 mg Kg ketamine 40 mg kg and xylazine 2.5 mg Kg pre operatively. The fur on the back of the animals was shaved and the back of each rabbit was washed with a surgical scrub e.g. Betadine wiped with dilute alcohol painted in Betadine and draped for surgery. A 2.0 2.5 cm lateral incision along the ventral surface on one side of the spine was created through the dermal layer. A single incision was made parallel to the mid line of the back cutting through the fascia and exposing the paravertebral muscle. The fascial membrane and portion of the trapezius muscle was incised with a scalpel creating a nominal implant site. Bleeding was controlled with gauze and pressure. Using blunt dissection an implant pocket was created along the left lateral wall toward the lateral aspect of the left scapula of the rabbit. The pocket was extended approximately 3 4 cm. A separate small incision was made just lateral to the first incision to accept a catheter to be tunneled into the pocket for bacteria delivery.

Once the pocket was created a bacterial injection cannula was created by removing the distal needle from a butterfly catheter. The 1.5 mm tube was placed into the pocket between the pacing device and the infraspinous fossa of the scapula. The tube was temporarily secured with a purse string suture. A sterile pacing device with or without a sterile anti bacterial pouch as indicated was then inserted into the pocket and the pocket was closed by suturing the subcutaneous layer to the underlying muscle layer using a mattress stitch and 3.0 prolene sutures. A syringe containing an individual bacterial dose was used to inject bacteria into the pocket using the cannula followed by 1.0 mL of sterile saline from a separate sterile syringe. The cannula was removed and the purse string suture was closed to seal the pocket. The same procedure was performed on the contralateral side using the same cutaneous incision and tunneling with blunt dissection into the contralateral side. Following device implant the sub cutaneous tissues were then closed using 3.0 vicryl sutures and interrupted stitches the bacterial inoculum and saline rinse were injected into the catheter placed into this contralateral pocket and the cutaneous tissues were closed using surgical staples or sutures. Animals were observed during post operative recovery until body temperature was normal and animal was alert and responsive. The rabbits were observed daily throughout the seven day study.

Antimicrobial pouch The antimicrobial pouch used in these studies was the AIGIS antimicrobial envelope manufactured by TyRx Pharma Inc. This antimicrobial pouch consists of a polypropylene mesh with a coating of 10 minocycline hydrochloride and rifampin in a DTE 27.5 DT succinate polyarylate which was manufactured and formed into a pouch as described in Example 6.

Necropsy and Bacterial Sampling at Explant At seven days post surgery animals were euthanized using a sodium pentothal injection Euthasol . The implant site was prepared in the same manner as for the surgical implant assuring that the site was aseptic. The pocket containing the device was entered using aseptic techniques creating a new incision site just dorsal to the original incision. A digital photo was obtained of the opened implant pocket.

The device was removed and swabbed with a sterile cotton swab. A specific swabbing procedure was developed for use with this study to ensure uniform and thorough sampling. Four swabs were collected for each device to sample distinct areas of the device Swabs 1 and 2 sampled the front and back face of the device respectively by swabbing the complete surface area of the device in a back and forth manner from top to bottom. Swab 3 was used to wipe the sides and bottom of the device starting at the top left side along the bottom and back up the right side to the top. The fourth swab covered the areas surrounding the lead ports.

Two swabs were obtained from the pocket area. One was wiped 3 times around the bottom of the pocket. The second collected other areas of the pocket in which pus existed. Each swab was streaked onto a trypticase soy agar TSA plate and cultured for 24 48 hours at 37 C. Plates were examined for presence of bacterial colonies and the presence of one or more colonies was defined as positive. Plates were defined as negative if no colonies were observed after 48 hours of culture.

The device was then placed in a sterile plastic bottle with screw top lid with sterile saline 0.5 Tween 80 to cover the device. Bacterial recovery from the device proceeded through a series of vortex and sonication steps. The bottle with the device and saline was vigorously vortexed for 15 seconds followed by sonication for 5 minutes. The device was transferred to a new sterile jar and fresh saline 0.5 Tween 80. This jar containing the device was vigorously vortexed for 30 seconds followed by placement in a sonicator bath and sonication for 5 minutes. Each sonicant solution was transferred to labeled 50 mL sterile tubes resulting in two sonication samples.

Serial dilutions 10 10 and 10 were prepared from each sample Sonicant 1 and Sonicant 2 and 200 L was streaked onto a TSA plate. Plates were cultured overnight. All samples were prepared and plated on the day of explant. If bacteria were isolated and grown the plate was scored as positive and the colony count was quantified.

Bacterial Strain Identification A single colony recovered from each device was analyzed by Gram stain and API test strips BioMerieux France to determine bacterial strain.

Analysis of Systemic Antibiotic Level Blood was drawn at study termination and plasma was collected and frozen for assay of minocycline and rifampin levels. Minocycline Sigma Aldrich was stored at approximately 5 C. rifampin Sigma Aldrich was stored at room temperature and the internal standard rifabutin USP was stored at approximately 20 C. Plasma samples were extracted in acetonitrile centrifuged and supernatant was transferred to a 96 well plate and evaporated to dryness under nitrogen. Each well was reconstituted in acetonitrol water 15 85 and 5 l was applied to an LC MS MS system Scitex 4000 Q trap . Samples were run on a Synergy Hydro RP 50 2.0 mm 4 m column with mobile phase 1 in 0.5 formic acid in water and phase B in 0.5 formic acid in acetonitrile methanol 1 1 at a flow rate of 0.5 mL minute. Sample concentrations were determined relative to minocycline and rifampin standards run under identical conditions.

Scanning Electron Microscopy SEM Explanted devices for SEM were placed in 2 glutaraldehyde fixative solution immediately upon explant. After sufficient time for fixation overnight samples were chemically dehydrated using stepwise ethanol dehydration steps 70 100 followed by immersion in hexamethyldisilazane HMDS and allowed to air dry. Samples were then sputter coated with gold and viewed on a Hitachi S3500N Variable Pressure Scanning Electron Microscope.

It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that various omissions additions and modifications may be made to the invention described above without departing from the scope of the invention and all such modifications and changes are intended to fall within the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. All references patents patent applications or other documents cited are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The rabbit model of in vivo device infection was used to assess infection and biofilm formation. One milliliter of approximately 1 10CFU mL was inoculated into subcutaneous pockets containing either a pacing device alone or a pacing device with the antimicrobial pouch. Pilot studies were initially performed to determine appropriate dose of bacteria needed to create a consistent non lethal infection. For the efficacy study there were 3 animals per group having the device with antimicrobial pouch n 6 and 3 animals in the control group having the device without an antimicrobial pouch n 6 . Gross observations of the appearance of the device and pocket at explant revealed that each implant pocket containing a device without pouch contained white pus like material to varying degrees in the pocket and white filmy material on the device surface . Some erythema of the pocket tissue was present. Each implant pocket containing the device with anti microbial pouch was void of this white filmy material . A summary of gross observations of signs of clinical infection is presented in Table 9 with Sign of Infection defined as presence of white filmy or mucous like material pus on the device.

The presence of some tissue like material on the devices with pouches was noted which appeared related to fibrous tissue ingrowth rather than clinical infection. There was host tissue ingrowth into the pouch with mild erythema of the pocket tissue. When removed from the pouch the device surface was clear of pus like material in each device implanted with a pouch.

A summary of bacterial colonization from swabs is presented in Table 10. Each implant from the control group demonstrated two or more positive swabs from the device and or pocket. In contrast all swabs from devices and implant pockets from the test group were negative.

Following the swabbing procedure the devices were subjected to a series of vortex and sonication steps as detailed above and in Materials and Methods to dislodge any bacteria that may be adherent to the device. These sonication solutions were serially diluted and plated on TSA plates and resulting colonies were counted Table 11 . There was extensive colony growth from all device sonication samples in the group without pouches. In contrast all devices contained within the antimicrobial pouches had negative sonication samples.

To demonstrate efficacy across a range of pathogens the same implant model was employed using other bacterial strains including and . A summary of the inoculum dose for each strain and the resulting bacterial recovery results are presented in Table 12. In the table means signs of clinical infection were observed as defined by presence of pus or mucous like material on device.

Pilot dosing studies were performed to determine the appropriate dose to yield consistent non lethal infection. For the pilot dosing study only minimal bacteria were recovered following a 7 day implant though the pocket had signs of clinical infection suggesting that the host s immune system may have fought the bacteria leaving a sterile exudate. A two step design was then used for the efficacy study in which 1 10CFU mL was inoculated into 4 animals 2 devices each n 2 per test and control groups then explanted at 3 days post surgery and 1 10CFU mL was inoculated into 4 more animals n 2 per test and control groups with explants 7 days post surgery. For the other studies 3 animals were inoculated per test and control groups n 6 devices per group .

Each bacterial strain generated significant pocket infection with observable biofilm like material on the device surfaces and extensive colonies grown from sonicant samples and swabs of the devices implanted without the antimicrobial pouch. In each study the use of the anti microbial polymer mesh pouch eradicated bacteria samples by both swabbing and sonication methods.

Systemic Antibiotic Levels Blood was drawn at termination for the 3 and 7 day study to determine if the AIGISantimicrobial pouch resulted in circulating levels of systemic antibiotic. Plasma was collected from the drawn blood and samples were analyzed for levels of rifampin and minocyline by Covance Laboratories Inc. Madison. Wis. . Results of LC MS MS analysis demonstrates no detectable level of either antibiotics detected greater than 2 ng mL in any of the rabbit blood from this study at 3 or 7 days post implant.

SEM of Device Biofilm at Explant Some devices explanted from the study were processed for scanning electron microscopy immediately following explant. demonstrates the gross appearance of the dehydrated pacing devices prior to further processing. The pacing can on the left had been implanted within the antimicrobiocrobial pouch while the device on the right was implanted without an antimicrobial pouch. The biofilm material is evident in the device on the right.

One sample from a test group with antimicrobial pouch and inoculated with 1 10 and one from a control group device implant only and pocket inoculated with 1 10 were each visualized for signs of biofilm on the device surface. Representative images are shown in and C. Extensive evidence of bacteria and matrix like material are evident on the device implanted without the antimicrobial pouch while the surface of the device implanted within the antimicrobial pouch has no evidence of bacteria .

Creation Of Initial Bacterial Stock was obtained from the American Type Culture Collection ATCC 29213 ATCC 35984 ATCC 27840 and ATCC 25922 . Master and working stocks were created from this culture and frozen for future use.

Development of Inoculum One day prior to surgery a frozen aliquot of and stock was quickly thawed put into liquid media and placed in a shaking water bath at approximately 37 C. overnight at a sufficient volume to produce required Inoculum. After a 16 19 hour culture period the cultures were centrifuged the broth decanted and the bacterial pellet re suspended in an appropriate volume of fresh sterile phosphate buffered saline PBS . Optical density of each culture was determined by spectrophotometry. The cultures were diluted to the target concentration of 1.0 107 CFU mL and and 1.0 1010 CFU mL and for inoculation and 1.0 10 and 1.0 10 for the repeat of Groups 1 and 2 Table 13 An aliquot from each concentration was diluted appropriately and inoculated onto trypticase soy agar TSA plates to confirm CFU mL. One mL aliquots of the cultures were loaded into sterile 3 cc syringes for each rabbit to be implanted. Two additional syringes were prepared from each culture as replacements and to culture at the end of the implants to confirm CFU mL.

Selection of Animals Animals were selected at random from a larger pool of animals. Animals were of sufficient size to accommodate implants into the paravertebral muscles. Each animal was observed for any signs of disease prior to introduction into the study. Any animals considered unsuitable due to poor health or outlying body weight were excluded from the study.

Animal Preparation Each rabbit was weighed and the weight recorded to the nearest 0.1 kg. Initially the rabbits were anesthetized with a combination of ketamine 20 mg kg and acepromazine 0.5 1 mg kg intramuscular doses to a degree deep enough to prevent muscular movements surgical plane . Each animal was given an injection of an analgesic buprenorphine at 0.05 0.1 mg kg subcutaneously immediately prior to the implantation procedure. Isoflurane was delivered via nose cone as needed to maintain a surgical plane. The fur on the back of the animals was removed with an electric clipper to expose a sufficient area and the loose fur was removed. The back of each rabbit was washed with a surgical scrub e.g. Betadine wiped with dilute alcohol painted in Betadine and draped for surgery

Test Article Preparation Aseptic preparation was used for any sterile articles. Two test articles were prepared for each rabbit.

Test Article Administration Surgical Procedure A 2.0 2.5 cm lateral incision along the ventral surface of the spine was created through the dermal layer A single incision was made parallel to the mid line of the back cutting through the fascia and exposing the paravertebral muscle. The fascial membrane was incised with a scalpel creating a nominal implant site. Bleeding was controlled with gauze and pressure. Using blunt dissection implant pockets were created bilaterally along the lateral wall toward the lateral aspect of the scapula of the rabbit. The pocket extended approximately 3 4 cm toward the hamate process Once each pocket was created a single sterile device was inserted into each pocket. A bacterial injection catheter was created by removing the distal needle from a Vacutainer blood collection set. The 1.5 mm tube was placed into each pocket between the pacing device and the infraspinous fossa of the scapula. The tube was temporarily secured with a purse string suture.

A pocket surrounding each device was created using a continuous stitch and prolene sutures reconnecting the subcutaneous tissues around the device The subcutaneous tissues were closed using vicryl sutures and interrupted stitches and the cutaneous tissues were closed leaving only the distal end of the catheter in the pocket. The previously prepared syringe was used to inject the determined dose of or into each pocket using the catheter followed by 1.0 mL of sterile saline from a separate sterile syringe to flush the catheter. The catheter was removed and the purse string suture was closed to seal the pocket. Animals were observed daily over the course of 7 days.

Post Implantation Care Each animal was given an injection of an analgesic buprenorphine immediately following the implantation procedure and again the day after the implantation procedure. The animals were placed on towels and monitored until they were awake and upright. Animals were observed over the course of 7 days.

Clinical Observations Clinical observations were recorded daily for each animal. Observations were typically cage side looking for signs of illness injury or abnormal behavior.

Animals were weighed and euthanized using a sodium pentothal injection Euthasol to effect. The implant site was prepared in the same manner as for the surgical implant assuring that the site was aseptic. The pocket containing the device was entered using aseptic techniques Digital images of the pocket and device were obtained.

The anti bacterial pouch or shell AIGIS was aseptically removed from each device if present and placed into a labeled saline filled container. The cardiac pacing devices were placed in freshly prepared 2.5 glutaraldehyde or phosphate buffered saline. The implant pockets were swabbed once with a sterile cotton swab and were placed into sterile labeled Whirlpack bags and given to the microbiologist for streaking onto TSA plates. For the repeat of Groups 1 and 2 the cardiac pacing devices from animals 9644 and 9645 were placed in 50 mL sterile saline with 0.5 Tween 80 and underwent a series of two vortex sonication steps to remove adherent bacteria. The containers with each device were vigorously vortexed for 30 seconds followed by placement in a sonicator bath and sonication for 5 minutes. The sonicant solution was transferred to a labeled 50 mL sterile tube and 50 mL fresh saline with 0.5 Tween 80 was added to the mesh in the original container. This container was again vigorously vortexed for 30 seconds followed by placement in a sonicator bath and sonication for 5 minutes. The sonicant solution was transferred to a labeled 50 mL sterile tube. The process was repeated resulting in three sonicant solutions per device. Each sonication specimen to be plated was diluted 10 10and 10by serial dilution. Two hundred mL of each dilution and the undiluted sample were plated onto TSA plates and incubated overnight up to 48 hours to quantify dislodged bacteria.

The swabs were streaked onto TSA plates and incubated up to 48 hours at approximately 37 C. Plates were examined for the presence of colonies and scored as positive if one or more colonies were present and negative if no colonies are present.

A resulting colony from each device animal was identified for bacterial strain via Gram stain colony morphology and API test strips.

Bacterial Cultures for Inoculum The and overnight cultures created to prepare inoculum were successful and yielded viable colony forming bacteria. The cultures were diluted or concentrated to prepare each inoculum dose and were plated to quantify actual CFUs both immediately after inoculum preparation and again at the end of implant. The actual CFUs were 5.8 10 4.3 10 1.3 10 and 1.2 10 CFU mL from the 4 doses respectively at pre implant and 5.5 10 4.9 10 1.2 10and 1.0 10CFU mL for the four doses respectively post implant which is slightly above the target inoculums of 1 10and 1 10for and and slightly below the target inoculum of 1.0 10and for 1.0 10for and . For the repeat of Group 1 and 2 preimplant CFUs were 1.5 10CFU mL and 6.0 10 and 6.3 10and 4.8 10post implant. The target inoculums have an inherent variability and are expected within the bacteria inoculum studied. Mixed colonies were observed on the viability confirmation plates for the repeat of Groups 1 and 2. Colonies appeared to be a mix of and

Daily Animal Observations All animals were successfully implanted with device and and inoculum as described in Table 14. Clinical observations of animal health are described in Table 15. In the repeat animal study. the urine was noted to be darker in the Group 2 n 2 animals. This was noted at one observation time point Day 7 . This finding was not noted in the initial study with and and is considered an insignificant finding. No adverse signs of clinical health were observed throughout the study period for any of the animals.

Clinical Gross Observations at Explant All gross observations at explant are presented in Table 16. All incision sites were clean the test articles were found to be in place and the pockets were intact. Thin to moderate film capsule formation was observed on the pacemaker only devices in 6 8 animals with a viscous liquid within the pocket and on the pacemaker was grossly observed on the pacing device in 2 8 animals Animal 8327 and 8320 while no film was noted on the pacemaker with AIGIS in these early explants. Pacemaker with AIGIS articles and control pacing devices for animals 8244 8246 8248 8320 9646 and 9642 were placed in 2.5 glutaraldehyde and submitted for SEM. Pacemaker with AIGIS articles and control pacing devices for animals 8245 8247 8251 and 8327 were placed in phosphate buffered saline and submitted for confocal microscopy.

Swabs and Tissue Samples A summary of bacterial colonization from swabs is presented in Tables 17 20. Swabs from the pacing device implants right side in Group 3 and 4 and the repeat of Group 2 resulted in bacterial growth. Sonicant samples from the pacing device implants right side in Group 1 and 2 also resulted in bacterial growth.

Bacterial Identification One colony from each of the positive samples from each implant was analyzed by Gram stain and API identification. Results are presented in Tables 17 20. Bacteria recovered were determined to be cocci and rods. Gram stain results indicated Gram positive n 2 of 6 and Gram negative n 2 of 6 . Each colony obtained from the positive swabs was identified as and by API analysis in Groups 3 and 4. All isolates recovered during the repeat of Groups 1 and 2 were identified to genus .

Confocal Microscopy The devices without the AIGIS envelope were observed to have bacterial infections whereas the devices with the AIGIS envelope appeared to have minimal viable bacteria see .

Scanning Electron Microscopy The pacing devices with the AIGIS envelope did not appear to have any film surrounds the pacing device when removed from the envelope see .

