---

title: Malignancy-risk signature from histologically normal breast tissue
abstract: The invention provides for malignancy-risk gene signatures that predict the risk of developing breast cancer, the recurrence of breast cancer, and/or the metastasis of breast cancer. These signatures have numerous clinical applications including assessing risk of breast cancer development following routine breast biopsy, assessing the need for adjuvant radiotherapy after lumpectomy, and determining the need for completion mastectomy following lumpectomy for the breast cancer patient and other treatment plans that are personalized for the patient.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09195796&OS=09195796&RS=09195796
owner: University of South Florida
number: 09195796
owner_city: Tampa
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090112
---
This application claims the priority benefit of the U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 020 575 filed Jan. 11 2008 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with Government support under Grant Nos. CA076292 CA098522 and CA112215 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

This invention relates to cancer screening and therapy. Specifically the invention entails screening pre pathological breast tissue for potential oncogenesis.

Throughout this specification reference numbering is sometimes used to refer to the full citation for the references which can be found in the Reference Bibliography after the Examples section. The disclosure of all patents patent applications and publications cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes.

In 2004 186 772 women and 1 815 men were diagnosed with breast cancer making it the second most common cancer in women. Conventional treatment includes surgery chemotherapy hormone therapy and radiation. Breast conserving approaches have been increasingly used to treat invasive breast cancer. Historical data however have reported a 40 local recurrence rate after lumpectomy without radiotherapy. Furthermore the rate of local recurrence after mastectomy has been reported at 10 30 . Local recurrence rate following lumpectomy without radiotherapy for ductal carcinoma in situ is as high as 63 with invasive cancer occurring in over 36 of cases and a median recurrence between 2 and 6 years depending on the initial stage of the resected tumor. Radiotherapy significantly reduces rate of local recurrence to 10 or less but does not completely eliminate the risk of cancer. Collectively these data demonstrate the potential apparent normal breast possesses to harbor pre malignant changes or very early malignancy at molecular level and emphasize the insensitivity of the current strategies to detect disease at an early molecular stage even in patients known to be at high risk. The potential benefit of a molecular signature as an indication of risk for subsequent development of breast cancer would therefore be very useful in screening applications.

Currently it is estimated that false negatives and new cancers previously screened as negative may amount to 2 4 of the new cancer cases following breast biopsy. Determination of molecular markers of malignancy in histologically normal breast may improve the potential for breast biopsy to identify at risk patients refine the current practice of intra operative assessment of margins of the resected breast tissues based on histology alone and may prove useful in guiding treatment choices after lumpectomy. For example it is clear that not all patients require or benefit from post lumpectomy radiotherapy which often leads to considerable cosmetic defects in the residual breast.

Accordingly there is a need for the ability for to predict which individuals who have histologically normal breast tissue will likely develop breast cancer or breast cancer recurrence or metastasis of breast cancer. The ability for physicians and or others of skill in the art allows for personalized treatment of patients and avoids unnecessary treatments that are not beneficial to the patient s health.

The invention provides for inter alia malignancy risk gene signatures that predict the risk of developing breast cancer the recurrence of breast cancer and or the metastasis of breast cancer methods of using such signatures and kits containing arrays of malignancy risk gene signatures. Thus one objective of the invention was to establish high cancer risk gene signatures in histologically normal breast tissues obtained from patients with invasive breast cancer. Other objectives are described in greater detail infra.

As detailed further in the Examples outlier gene signatures were derived to assess cancer risk from the 143 histologically normal breast tissues derived from patients who underwent mastectomy for breast carcinoma. Up to four normal breast samples adjacent to an invasive ductal carcinoma were obtained from each patient. Validation results indicated that the outlier gene signature had multiple predictive properties including potential to predict cancer risk disease progression and metastasis. Since the outlier genes were highly associated with cell proliferation it is conceivable that these proliferation genes may have a role in the earliest stages of breast cancer development and subsequent progression.

These signatures have numerous clinical applications including but not limited to assessing risk of breast cancer development following routine breast biopsy assessing the need for adjuvant radiotherapy after lumpectomy and determining the need for completion mastectomy following lumpectomy for the breast cancer patient and other treatment plans that are personalized for the patient and thus fulfill several needs in this field.

The invention described herein provides for malignancy risk gene signature and methods for determining or predicting the likelihood that an individual who has histologically normal breast tissue will develop breast cancer have recurrence of breast cancer and or for predicting spread of breast cancer by using malignancy risk gene signatures.

Accordingly in one aspect the invention provides for methods for predicting the likelihood for the development of breast cancer in an individual comprising a analyzing a breast tissue sample from the individual wherein the sample comprises substantially histologically normal cells from the individual to obtain a first gene expression profile b comparing the first gene expression profile to a malignancy risk gene signature as depicted in Table 6 and c predicting the likelihood that the individual will develop cancer if the individual expresses at least 10 of the malignancy risk genes. In one embodiment the individual is suspected of having breast cancer or who has had breast cancer or who is at risk for breast cancer. In another embodiment the individual has had or currently has atypical hyperplasia. In another embodiment the individual has had or currently has fibroadenoma. In another embodiment the breast cancer is selected from the group consisting of invasive ductal carcinoma IDC ductal carcinoma in situ DCIS lobular carcinoma in situ LCIS and invasive lobular carcinoma ILC . In another embodiment the individual had had a surgical procedure to remove breast cancer breast tumor or breast lesion. In one embodiment the surgical procedure is a lumpectomy or a mastectomy. In another embodiment the individual has initiated chemotherapy treatment either before or after the surgical procedure. In another embodiment the breast tissue sample is obtained ipsilaterally with the cancer tumor or lesion.

In another aspect the invention provides for methods for predicting the likelihood for the spread of breast cancer in an individual who has had or currently has breast cancer comprising a obtaining a breast tissue sample from the individual comprising substantially histologically normal cells from the individual b analyzing the sample to obtain a first gene expression profile c comparing the first gene expression profile to a malignancy risk gene signature listed in Table 6 and d predicting the likelihood that the individual will develop spread of breast cancer if the individual expresses at least 10 of the malignancy risk genes. In one embodiment the breast cancer is selected from the group consisting of invasive ductal carcinoma IDC ductal carcinoma in situ DCIS lobular carcinoma in situ LCIS and invasive lobular carcinoma ILC . In another embodiment the spread of cancer is metastasis. In another embodiment the individual had had a surgical procedure to remove breast cancer. In another embodiment the surgical procedure is a lumpectomy or a mastectomy. In another embodiment the individual has initiated chemotherapy or radiation treatment before or after the surgical procedure.

In any of the aspects or embodiments the malignancy risk signature is at least 10 genes selected from Table 3. In any of the aspects or embodiments the malignancy risk signature is selected from the group consisting of the following genes from Table 6 APOBEC3B C6orf115 CASC5 CORO2A FAM83D HIST1H2BF MOBK1B WDSOF1 IQGAP3 AMOTL2 CCDC50 CHRDL1 GPRASP1 MAGI2 RBMS3 SYNPO2 Affymetrix probe set id 213158 at Affymetrix probe set id 226250 at Affymetrix probe set id 226252 at Affymetrix probe set id 227082 at Affymetrix probe set id 227121 at Affymetrix probe set id 227646 at Affymetrix probe set id 227719 at Affymetrix probe set id 235556 at Affymetrix probe set id 235570 at and Affymetrix probe set id 243584 at. In any of the aspects or embodiments the malignancy risk genes are selected from the genes in Table 7. In any of the aspects or embodiments the malignancy risk gene signature is selected from the genes in Table 8. In any of the aspects or embodiments the malignancy risk gene signature does not include at least one of the genes in . In any of the aspects or embodiments the malignancy risk gene signature does not include at least one of the genes in . In any of the aspects or embodiments the predicting of the likelihood that the individual will develop breast cancer or spread of breast cancer is expression of at least 117 of the malignancy risk genes. In any of the aspects or embodiments the malignancy risk gene signature does not include at least one of the genes in . In any of the aspects or embodiments the malignancy risk gene signature is selected from the genes in . In any of the aspects or embodiments the malignancy risk gene signature is selected from the genes in . In any of the aspects or embodiments the malignancy risk gene signature does not include at least one of the genes in . In any of the aspects or embodiments the malignancy risk gene signature is selected from the genes in . In any of the aspects or embodiments the malignancy risk gene signature is selected from the genes in .

In another aspect the invention provides for malignancy risk gene signatures for use in predicting or diagnosing cancer wherein the gene signature comprises at least 10 genes of Table 6. In one embodiment the gene signature comprises at least 10 genes of Table 3. In another embodiment the gene signature does not include at least 1 gene selected from the genes listed in B A and A. In another embodiment wherein the gene signature comprises at least about 30 genes selected from the group consisting of the genes in Table 3 Table 7 Table 8 and . In another embodiment the gene signature comprises at least 10 genes selected from the group consisting of APOBEC3B C6orf115 CASC5 CORO2A FAM83D HIST1H2BF MOBK1B WDSOF1 IQGAP3 AMOTL2 CCDC50 CHRDL1 GPRASP1 MAGI2 RBMS3 SYNPO2 Affymetrix probe set id 213158 at Affymetrix probe set id 226250 at Affymetrix probe set id 226252 at Affymetrix probe set id 227082 at Affymetrix probe set id 227121 at Affymetrix probe set id 227646 at Affymetrix probe set id 227719 at Affymetrix probe set id 235556 at Affymetrix probe set id 235570 at and Affymetrix probe set id 243584 at.

In another aspect the invention provides for arrays comprising polynucleotides hybridizing to at least about 30 malignancy risk signature genes immobilized on a solid surface wherein said gene signature genes are listed in Table 6.

In another aspect the invention provides for arrays comprising polynucleotides hybridizing to at least about 30 malignancy risk signature genes immobilized on a solid surface wherein said gene signature genes are listed in Table 3 Table 7 Table 8 and .

In another aspect the invention provides for kits comprising the array comprising malignancy risk gene signatures of any one of the above and a set of instructions for determining an individual s likelihood of developing breast cancer.

In another aspect the invention provides for kits comprising the array comprising malignancy risk gene signatures of any one of the above and a set of instructions for determining an individual s likelihood of having breast cancer spread to other locations in the individual s body.

In another aspect the invention provides for computer readable media comprising a malignancy risk signature which comprises at least about 30 genes from Table 6.

In another aspect the invention provides for computer readable media comprising a malignancy risk signature which comprises at least about 30 genes from Table 3 Table 7 Table 8 and .

The inventors have discovered malignancy risk gene signature that can assess an individual s risk of developing breast cancer. The invention described herein provides methods for determining or predicting the likelihood that an individual who has histologically normal breast tissue will develop breast cancer have recurrence of breast cancer and or for predicting spread of breast cancer by using malignancy risk gene signatures. The invention also describes malignancy risk gene signatures that can be used for such determination and arrays microarrays that comprise these malignancy risk gene signatures. The invention further provides for kits comprising such arrays microarrays and computer readable media with such malignancy risk gene signatures for use in determining if an individual will experience the development of breast cancer recurrence of breast cancer and or spread of breast cancer.

For purposes of interpreting this specification the following definitions will apply and whenever appropriate terms used in the singular will also include the plural and vice versa. In the event that any definition set forth below conflicts with any document incorporated herein by reference the definition set forth below shall control.

 Malignancy risk high risk gene signature and outlier gene signature are used interchangeably herein and are used herein to describe gene signatures that can predict if an individual with histologically normal breast tissue is at risk to develop breast cancer to have recurrence of breast cancer and or to have metastasis i.e. spread of breast cancer.

As used herein an individual at risk of developing breast cancer may or may not have detectable disease or symptoms of disease and may or may not have displayed detectable disease or symptoms of disease prior to the treatment methods described herein. At risk denotes that a subject has one or more risk factors which are measurable parameters that correlate with development of breast cancer as described herein and known in the art. A subject having one or more of these risk factors has a higher probability of developing breast cancer than a subject without one or more of these risk factor s . For example in some embodiments a subject at risk of developing breast cancer has a genetic signature comprising one or more of the genes set forth in Table 6. In another embodiment a subject at risk of developing breast cancer has a genetic signature comprising one or more of the genes set forth in Table 3 7 8 B B and A.

 Breast cancer as used herein refers to malignant often uncontrolled growth of cells in the breast. Although breast cancer occurs primarily in females breast cancer can occur in men. As such it is to be understood that the invention applies to both females and males.

 Outlier breast tissue refer to breast tissue that is histologically normal but has a molecular signature that is abnormal and could has the capacity to develop into cancer. Non limiting methods for determining if a tissue is an outlier tissue is described herein.

An individual subject or patient is a vertebrate. In certain embodiments the vertebrate is a mammal. Mammals include but are not limited to primates including human and non human primates and rodents e.g. mice and rats . In certain embodiments a mammal is a human both female and male .

A patient refers to an individual who is under the care of a treating physician. In one embodiment the patient is a female. In another embodiment the patient is a female who had not been diagnosed with breast cancer. In yet other embodiments the patient is a female who has been diagnosed with breast cancer but has had surgery to remove the breast cancer tissue.

A patient subpopulation and grammatical variations thereof as used herein refers to a patient subset characterized as having one or more distinctive measurable and or identifiable characteristics that distinguishes the patient subset from others in the broader disease category to which it belongs. Such characteristics include disease subcategories e.g. invasive carcinoma vs. in situ carcinoma treatment history etc. In one embodiment a patient subpopulation is characterized by genetic signatures including malignancy risk gene signatures.

The term sample as used herein refers to a composition that is obtained or derived from an individual that contains a cellular and or other molecular entity that is to be characterized and or identified for example based on physical biochemical chemical and or physiological characteristics. In one embodiment the sample is taken from a breast that is ipsilateral to the breast cancer.

By tissue or cell sample is meant a collection of similar cells obtained from a tissue of a subject or patient. The source of the tissue or cell sample may be solid tissue as from a fresh frozen and or preserved tissue sample. In one embodiment the tissue or cell sample may be taken from a breast lumpectomy or mastectomy. The tissue sample may also be primary or cultured cells or cell lines taken from and or derived from an individual. The tissue sample may contain compounds which are not naturally intermixed with the tissue in nature such as preservatives anticoagulants buffers fixatives nutrients antibiotics or the like.

As used herein tissue sample or sample comprising substantially normal histological cells have at least about 50 of the cells in the sample which have normal histological appearance as determined by one of skill in the art e.g. a pathologist . In some embodiments at least about 55 of the cells in the sample which have normal histological appearance. In yet other embodiments at least about 60 at least about 65 at least about 70 at least about 75 at least about 80 at least about 85 at least about 90 at least about 95 at least about 96 at least about 97 at least about 98 at least about 99 at least about 99.5 of the cells in the sample which have normal histological appearance.

For the purposes herein a section of a tissue sample is meant a single part or piece of a tissue sample e.g. a thin slice of tissue or cells cut from a tissue sample. It is understood that multiple sections of tissue samples may be taken and subjected to analysis according to the present invention. It is understood that the present invention comprises a method whereby the same section of tissue sample can be analyzed at both morphological and molecular levels or can be analyzed with respect to both protein and nucleic acid expression. The examples provided herein where nucleic acid expression is used for predictive purposes are non limiting examples. It is to be understood that protein expression could also be used for predictive purposes.

As used herein array and microarray are interchangeable and refer to an arrangement of a collection of nucleotide sequences in a centralized location. Arrays can be on a solid substrate such as a glass slide or on a semi solid substrate such as nitrocellulose membrane. The nucleotide sequences can be DNA RNA or any permutations thereof. The nucleotide sequences can also be partial sequences from a gene primers whole gene sequences non coding sequences coding sequences published sequences known sequences or novel sequences.

The term polynucleotide or nucleic acid as used interchangeably herein refers to polymers of nucleotides of any length and include DNA and RNA. The nucleotides can be deoxyribonucleotides ribonucleotides modified nucleotides or bases and or their analogs or any substrate that can be incorporated into a polymer by DNA or RNA polymerase. A polynucleotide may comprise modified nucleotides such as methylated nucleotides and their analogs. If present modification to the nucleotide structure may be imparted before or after assembly of the polymer. The sequence of nucleotides may be interrupted by non nucleotide components. A polynucleotide may be further modified after polymerization such as by conjugation with a labeling component. Other types of modifications include for example caps substitution of one or more of the naturally occurring nucleotides with an analog internucleotide modifications such as for example those with uncharged linkages e.g. methyl phosphonates phosphotriesters phosphoamidates carbamates etc. and with charged linkages e.g. phosphorothioates phosphorodithioates etc. those containing pendant moieties such as for example proteins e.g. nucleases toxins antibodies signal peptides poly L lysine etc. those with intercalators e.g. acridine psoralen etc. those containing chelators e.g. metals radioactive metals boron oxidative metals etc. those containing alkylators those with modified linkages e.g. alpha anomeric nucleic acids etc. as well as unmodified forms of the polynucleotide s . Further any of the hydroxyl groups ordinarily present in the sugars may be replaced for example by phosphonate groups phosphate groups protected by standard protecting groups or activated to prepare additional linkages to additional nucleotides or may be conjugated to solid supports. The 5 and 3 terminal OH can be phosphorylated or substituted with amines or organic capping groups moieties of from 1 to 20 carbon atoms. Other hydroxyls may also be derivatized to standard protecting groups. Polynucleotides can also contain analogous forms of ribose or deoxyribose sugars that are generally known in the art including for example 2 O methyl 2 O allyl 2 fluoro or 2 azido ribose carbocyclic sugar analogs a anomeric sugars epimeric sugars such as arabinose xyloses or lyxoses pyranose sugars furanose sugars sedoheptuloses acyclic analogs and abasic nucleoside analogs such as methyl riboside. One or more phosphodiester linkages may be replaced by alternative linking groups. These alternative linking groups include but are not limited to embodiments wherein phosphate is replaced by P O S thioate P S S dithioate O NR 2 amidate P O R P O OR CO or CH 2 formacetal in which each R or R is independently H or substituted or unsubstituted alkyl 1 20 C optionally containing an ether O linkage aryl alkenyl cycloalkyl cycloalkenyl or araldyl. Not all linkages in a polynucleotide need be identical. The preceding description applies to all polynucleotides referred to herein including RNA and DNA.

 Oligonucleotide as used herein refers to short single stranded polynucleotides that are at least about seven nucleotides in length and less than about 250 nucleotides in length. Oligonucleotides may be synthetic. The terms oligonucleotide and polynucleotide are not mutually exclusive. The description above for polynucleotides is equally and fully applicable to oligonucleotides.

The term primer refers to a single stranded polynucleotide that is capable of hybridizing to a nucleic acid and allowing the polymerization of a complementary nucleic acid generally by providing a free 3 OH group.

 Predicting and prediction as used herein does not mean that the event will happen with 100 certainty. Instead it is intended to mean the event will more likely than not happen. Acts taken to predict or make a prediction can include the determination of the likelihood that an event will be more likely than not to happen. Assessment of multiple factors described herein can be used to make such determination or prediction.

By correlate or correlating is meant comparing in any way the performance and or results of a first analysis or protocol with the performance and or results of a second analysis or protocol. For example one may use the results of a first analysis or protocol in carrying out a second protocols and or one may use the results of a first analysis or protocol to determine whether a second analysis or protocol should be performed. With respect to the embodiment of gene expression analysis or protocol one may use the results of the gene expression analysis or protocol to determine whether a specific therapeutic regimen should be performed.

The term diagnosis is used herein to refer to the identification or classification of a molecular or pathological state disease or condition. For example diagnosis may refer to identification of a particular type of breast cancer e.g. invasive ductal carcinoma IDC . Diagnosis may also refer to the classification of a particular sub type of breast cancer e.g. by tissue involvement e.g. lobular or ductal by molecular features e.g. a patient with histologically normal breast tissue .

The term aiding diagnosis is used herein to refer to methods that assist in making a clinical determination regarding the presence degree or other nature of a particular type of symptom or condition of breast cancer. For example a method of aiding diagnosis of breast cancer can comprise measuring the amount or detecting the presence or absence of one or more malignancy risk genes in a biological sample from an individual. In another example a method of aiding diagnosis of breast cancer can comprise measuring the amount or detecting the presence of one or more malignancy risk genes in a biological sample from an individual.

The term prognosis is used herein to refer to the prediction of the likelihood of the development of breast cancer including recurrence of breast cancer . The predictive methods of the invention can be used clinically to make treatment decisions by choosing the most appropriate treatment modalities for any particular patient. The predictive methods of the present invention are valuable tools in predicting if and or aiding in the diagnosis as to whether a patient is likely to develop breast cancer have recurrence of breast cancer and or metastasis of the cancer. Diagnosis of breast cancer may be made according to any protocol that one of skill of art would use for example those set by the College of American Pathology.

As used herein treatment refers to clinical intervention in an attempt to alter the natural course of the individual or cell being treated and can be performed before or during the course of clinical pathology. Desirable effects of treatment include preventing the occurrence or recurrence of a disease or a condition or symptom thereof alleviating a condition or symptom of the disease diminishing any direct or indirect pathological consequences of the disease decreasing the rate of disease progression ameliorating or palliating the disease state and achieving remission or improved prognosis. In some embodiments methods and compositions of the invention are useful in attempts to delay development of a disease or disorder.

A medicament is an active drug to treat a disease disorder and or condition. In one embodiment the disease disorder and or condition is breast cancer or its symptoms or side effects associated with treatment of breast cancer.

Reference to about a value or parameter herein includes and describes embodiments that are directed to that value or parameter per se. For example description referring to about X includes description of X. 

It is understood that aspect and embodiments of the invention described herein include consisting and or consisting essentially of aspects and embodiments.

Unless defined otherwise technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs.

The practice of the present invention will employ unless otherwise indicated conventional techniques of molecular biology including recombinant techniques microbiology cell biology biochemistry and immunology which are within the skill of the art. Such techniques are explained fully in the literature such as Molecular Cloning A Laboratory Manual second edition Sambrook et al. 1989 Oligonucleotide Synthesis M. J. Gait ed. 1984 Animal Cell Culture R. I. Freshney ed. 1987 Methods in Enzymology Academic Press Inc. Current Protocols in Molecular Biology F. M. Ausubel et al. eds. 1987 periodic updates PCR The Polymerase Chain Reaction Mullis et al. eds. 1994 Singleton et al. Dictionary of Microbiology and Molecular Biology 2nd ed. J. Wiley Sons New York N.Y. 1994 and March Advanced Organic Chemistry Reactions Mechanisms and Structure 4th ed. John Wiley Sons New York N.Y. 1992 and The Breast by Copeland Bland.

Primers oligonucleotides and polynucleotides employed in the present invention can be generated using standard techniques known in the art.

The invention provides for methods and malignancy risk gene signatures for predicting the likelihood that an individual with histologically normal breast tissue will develop breast cancer. The invention also provides for methods and malignancy risk gene signatures for predicting the likelihood that an individual with histologically normal breast tissue will develop a recurrence of breast cancer. The invention further provides for methods and malignancy risk gene signatures for predicting the likelihood for the spread of breast cancer e.g. metastasis in an individual.

Accordingly the invention provides for methods of using the malignancy risk gene signatures disclosed here to assess cancer risk cancer relapse cancer progression and prognosis. The use of such signatures has significant benefits for the diagnosis and the aiding of diagnosis of an individual who is at risk for developing breast cancer developing a recurrence of breast cancer and or metastasis of breast cancer. The knowledge that an individual will likely develop breast cancer enables physicians to take actions which are personalized to treat the patient. In some cases this involves more careful monitoring and or testing of the individual. In other cases it may involve a more aggressive plan of using chemotherapeutic agents or radiation therapy.

The methods and malignancy risk gene signatures of this invention may be used for any individual in need of such assessment. In other embodiments the individual is anyone who is at risk of having breast cancer whether for the first time or recurring breast cancer . In one embodiment the individual is a patient who has had breast cancer and had some type of treatment to remove or reduce the breast cancer. The treatment can be surgical procedure e.g. resection lumpectomy mastectomy lymph node dissection alone or with some type of cancer therapy e.g. chemotherapy radiation therapy hormone therapy and or targeted therapy like Herceptin . The individual may have had just cancer therapy alone. In one embodiment the individual appears to have had all the breast cancer removed and the tissue adjacent to the cancer i.e. ipsilateral to the cancer is histologically normal.

In another embodiment methods and malignancy risk gene signatures of this invention may be used for an individual who has not been diagnosed with breast cancer but has a family history of breast cancer. The individual is a vertebrate. In certain embodiments the vertebrate is a mammal. Mammals include but are not limited to primates including human and non human primates and rodents e.g. mice and rats . In certain embodiments a mammal is a human. In one embodiment the individual is female. In another embodiment the individual is a male. In some cases the individual is a patient who is under the care of a treating physician.

In some cases a patient subpopulation is first determined before determining the likelihood of those patients developing cancer. In one aspect the patient subpopulation is comprises of females who have histologically normal tissue in one or both breasts. In some cases the patient subpopulation is further subdivided by their medical history such as what type of breast cancer they had e.g. lobular vs. ductal invasive carcinoma vs. in situ carcinoma or the severity of the cancer. In other cases the patients are further subdivided by their treatment history etc. In one embodiment a patient subpopulation is characterized by genetic signatures including malignancy risk gene signatures. The patient subpopulation can express at least about 10 malignancy risk genes from the malignancy risk gene signatures disclosed herein e.g. from Table 6 . In one embodiment the patient subpopulation expresses at least about 15 malignancy risk genes at least about 20 malignancy risk genes at least about 25 malignancy risk genes at least about 30 malignancy risk genes at least about 35 malignancy risk genes at least about 40 malignancy risk genes at least about 45 malignancy risk genes at least about 50 malignancy risk genes at least about 55 malignancy risk genes at least about 60 malignancy risk genes at least about 70 malignancy risk genes at least about 75 malignancy risk genes at least about 80 malignancy risk genes at least about 85 malignancy risk genes at least about 90 malignancy risk genes at least about 95 malignancy risk genes at least about 100 malignancy risk genes at least about 105 malignancy risk genes at least about 110 malignancy risk genes at least about 115 malignancy risk genes at least about 120 malignancy risk genes at least about 125 malignancy risk genes at least about 130 malignancy risk genes at least about 135 malignancy risk genes or at least about 140 malignancy risk genes.

Identification of malignancy risk gene signatures is detailed in the Examples section. See for example for a flow chart. Such malignancy risk gene signatures can be obtained by determining an IDC invasive ductal carcinoma signature by comparing the gene expression profiles from IDC patients to that of normal histological tissue adjacent to breast cancer in patients who have had cancer and had some type of procedure e.g. surgical or cancer therapy to remove the breast cancer. Statistical analysis as described in the Examples can then be performed to identify IDC like genes see e.g. Example 13 from which malignancy risk scores can be calculated see e.g. Example 13 and a malignancy risk gene signature is then obtained. The 140 malignancy risk genes are disclosed in Table 6.

Malignancy risk genes can be cell proliferation genes however not all cell proliferation genes are malignancy risk genes. Others are involved in cell adhesion cell mitosis DNA replication. The Figures and Tables further describe the malignancy risk genes and their pathway roles.

Accordingly in one embodiment the invention encompasses methods of using the malignancy risk genes of Table 6 to predict an individual s likelihood of developing breast cancer having recurrent breast cancer or to have metastasis of breast cancer. In other embodiments the invention encompasses the use of such this malignancy risk gene signature to assess an individual s risk of developing or having recurring breast cancer and or metastasis. In some embodiments at least about 10 genes from the 140 malignancy risk genes in Table 6 are used for this determination. In other embodiments at least about 15 malignancy risk genes are used. In yet other embodiments at least about 20 malignancy risk genes at least about 25 malignancy risk genes at least about 30 malignancy risk genes at least about 35 malignancy risk genes at least about 40 malignancy risk genes at least about 45 malignancy risk genes at least about 50 malignancy risk genes at least about 55 malignancy risk genes at least about 60 malignancy risk genes at least about 70 malignancy risk genes at least about 75 malignancy risk genes at least about 80 malignancy risk genes at least about 85 malignancy risk genes at least about 90 malignancy risk genes at least about 95 malignancy risk genes at least about 100 malignancy risk genes at least about 105 malignancy risk genes at least about 110 malignancy risk genes at least about 115 malignancy risk genes at least about 120 malignancy risk genes at least about 125 malignancy risk genes at least about 130 malignancy risk genes or at least about 135 malignancy risk genes are used to make these determinations of risk of developing breast cancer having recurrent breast cancer or to have metastasis of breast cancer.

The invention also provides for methods for using the malignancy risk genes of Table 3 to predict an individual s likelihood of developing breast cancer having recurrent breast cancer or to have metastasis of breast cancer. In other embodiments the invention encompasses the use of such this malignancy risk gene signature to assess an individual s risk of developing or having recurring breast cancer and or metastasis. In some embodiments at least about 5 genes from the malignancy risk genes in Table 3 are used for this determination. In other embodiments at least about 6 7 8 9 or 10 malignancy risk genes are used. In yet other embodiments at least about 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 or 20 malignancy risk genes are used. In yet other embodiments at least about 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 or 30 malignancy risk genes are used.

In another embodiment the invention encompasses the malignancy risk gene signature of Table 3 wherein the gene signature does not include at least about 1 gene selected from the genes listed in B A and A. In other embodiments the invention encompasses the malignancy risk gene signature of Table 3 wherein the gene signature does not include at least about 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 or 10 genes selected from the genes listed in B A and A. In other embodiments the invention encompasses the malignancy risk gene signature of Table 3 wherein the gene signature does not include at least about 15 20 30 or more genes selected from the genes listed in B A and A.

In another aspect of the invention the invention provides for a malignancy risk gene signature which comprises at least about 10 genes selected from the group consisting of the genes in Table 3 Table 7 Table 8 and . In another embodiment of the invention the invention provides for a malignancy risk gene signature which comprises at least about 20 25 30 35 40 50 or more genes selected from the group consisting of the genes in Table 3 Table 7 Table 8 and .

In other embodiments each of the following genes topoisomerase 2 Bub 1 and MDM 2 can be used as a predictor of developing breast cancer having recurrent breast cancer or to have metastasis of breast cancer.

In another embodiment the malignancy risk signature is at least one or more genes selected from the group consisting of the following genes from Table 6 APOBEC3B C6orf115 CASC5 CORO2A FAM83D HIST1H2BF MOBK1B WDSOF1 IQGAP3 AMOTL2 CCDC50 CHRDL1 GPRASP1 MAGI2 RBMS3 SYNPO2 Affymetrix probe set id 213158 at Affymetrix probe set id 226250 at Affymetrix probe set id 226252 at Affymetrix probe set id 227082 at Affymetrix probe set id 227121 at Affymetrix probe set id 227646 at Affymetrix probe set id 227719 at Affymetrix probe set id 235556 at Affymetrix probe set id 235570 at and Affymetrix probe set id 243584 at.

In another embodiment the malignancy risk signature is at least about 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 or 15 more genes selected from the group consisting of the following genes from Table 6 APOBEC3B C6orf115 CASC5 CORO2A FAM83D HIST1H2BF MOBK1B WDSOF1 IQGAP3 AMOTL2 CCDC50 CHRDL1 GPRASP1 MAGI2 RBMS3 SYNPO2 Affymetrix probe set id 213158 at Affymetrix probe set id 226250 at Affymetrix probe set id 226252 at Affymetrix probe set id 227082 at Affymetrix probe set id 227121 at Affymetrix probe set id 227646 at Affymetrix probe set id 227719 at Affymetrix probe set id 235556 at Affymetrix probe set id 235570 at and Affymetrix probe set id 243584 at.

The malignancy risk gene signature can also be at least one or more of the malignancy risk genes listed in Table 7. In another embodiment the malignancy risk signature is at least about 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 or 15 more genes selected from the genes of Table 7. In another embodiment the malignancy risk signature is at least about 20 25 30 or 35 or more genes selected from the genes of Table 7.

The malignancy risk gene signature can also be at least one or more of the malignancy risk genes listed in Table 8. In another embodiment the malignancy risk signature is at least about 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 or 15 more genes selected from the genes of Table 8. In another embodiment the malignancy risk signature is at least about 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 or more genes selected from the genes of Table 8.

In one aspect the malignancy risk gene signature does not include at least one of the genes in . In other embodiments the malignancy risk gene signature does not include at least about 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 or 15 or more of the genes in .

In one aspect the malignancy risk gene signature does not include at least about one of the genes in . In other embodiments the malignancy risk gene signature does not include at least about 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 or 15 or more of the genes in .

In one aspect the malignancy risk gene signature does not include at least about one of the genes in . In other embodiments the malignancy risk gene signature does not include at least about 2 3 4 5 6 or more of the genes in .

In another aspect the malignancy risk gene signature can also be at least about one or more of the genes in . In another embodiment the malignancy risk signature is at least about 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 or 15 more genes selected from the genes of . In another embodiment the malignancy risk signature is at least about 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 30 35 40 45 or more genes selected from the genes of .

In another aspect the malignancy risk gene signature can also be at least about one or more of the genes in . In another embodiment the malignancy risk signature is at least about 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 or 15 more genes selected from the genes of . In another embodiment the malignancy risk signature is at least about 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 30 35 40 45 47 or more genes selected from the genes of .

In one aspect the malignancy risk gene signature does not include at least about one of the genes in . In other embodiments the malignancy risk gene signature does not include at least about 2 3 or 4 of the genes in .

In another aspect the malignancy risk gene signature can also be at least about one or more of the genes in . In another embodiment the malignancy risk signature is at least about 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 or 15 more genes selected from the genes of . In another embodiment the malignancy risk signature is at least about 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 62 or more genes selected from the genes of .

In another aspect the malignancy risk gene signature can also be at least about one or more of the genes in . In another embodiment the malignancy risk signature is at least about 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 or 15 more genes selected from the genes of . In another embodiment the malignancy risk signature is at least about 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 30 32 or more genes selected from the genes of .

The invention also comprises methods of identifying additional malignancy risk genes and those additional malignancy risk genes for inclusion in the malignancy risk gene signature by using the methology described herein.

Arrays and microarrays which contain the malignancy risk gene signatures as described herein for assessing the likelihood of developing cancer cancer relapse cancer progression prognosis and or metastasis are also encompassed within the scope of this invention. Methods of making arrays are well known in the art and as such do not need to be described in detail here.

Such arrays can contain the profiles of at least about 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 100 105 110 115 120 125 130 135 or 140 genes as disclosed in the Figures and Tables. Accordingly arrays for assessing the likelihood of developing cancer cancer relapse cancer progression and or metastasis can be customized for prognosis diagnosis aiding in the diagnosis or treatment of breast cancer. The array can be packaged as part of kit comprising the customized array itself and a set of instructions for how to use the array to determine an individual s likelihood of developing cancer cancer relapse cancer progression and metastasis.

Also provided are reagents and kits thereof for practicing one or more of the above described methods. The subject reagents and kits thereof may vary greatly. Reagents of interest include reagents specifically designed for use in production of the above described malignancy risk gene signatures.

One type of such reagent is an array probe of nucleic acids such as a DNA chip in which the malignancy risk gene signatures are represented. A variety of different array formats are known in the art with a wide variety of different probe structures substrate compositions and attachment technologies. Representative array structures of interest include those described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 143 854 5 288 644 5 324 633 5 432 049 5 470 710 5 492 806 5 503 980 5 510 270 5 525 464 5 547 839 5 580 732 5 661 028 5 800 992 the disclosures of which are herein incorporated by reference as well as WO 95 21265 WO 96 31622 WO 97 10365 WO 97 27317 EP 373 203 and EP 785 280. It is to be understood that the invention also encompasses detection of protein expression of the malignancy risk genes as described herein. Detection of protein expression is known to one of skill in the art and may be done using any number of commercially available products.

The DNA chip is convenient to compare the expression levels of a number of genes at the same time. DNA chip based expression profiling can be carried out for example by the method as disclosed in Microarray Biochip Technology Mark Schena Eaton Publishing 2000 . A DNA chip comprises immobilized high density probes to detect a number of genes. Thus the expression levels of many genes can be estimated at the same time by a single round analysis. Namely the expression profile of a specimen can be determined with a DNA chip. A DNA chip may comprise probes which have been spotted thereon to detect the expression level of the malignancy risk gene signatures of the present invention.

A probe may be designed for each malignancy risk gene selected and spotted on a DNA chip. Such a probe may be for example an oligonucleotide comprising 5 50 nucleotide residues. A method for synthesizing such oligonucleotides on a DNA chip is known to those skilled in the art. Longer DNAs can be synthesized by PCR or chemically. A method for spotting long DNA which is synthesized by PCR or the like onto a glass slide is also known to those skilled in the art. A DNA chip that is obtained by the method as described above can be used to determine the likelihood that an individual will develop breast disease develop breast cancer have recurrence of breast cancer and or have metastasis of breast cancer according to the present invention.

DNA microarray and methods of analyzing data from microarrays are well described in the art including in Ed. by Bowtel and Sambrook Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press 2002 by Kohana MIT Press 2002 by Knudsen Wiley John Sons Incorporated 2002 Vol. 205 by Schema Oxford University Press 1999 and ed. by Lin et al. Kluwer Academic Publishers 2002 .

One aspect of the invention provides a gene chip having a plurality of different oligonucleotides attached to a first surface of the solid support and having specificity for a plurality of genes wherein at least about 50 of the genes are common to those of the malignancy risk genes in Table 6. In one embodiment at least about 70 80 90 or 95 of the genes in the gene chip are common to those of the malignancy risk genes in Table 6.

In another aspect of the invention the invention provides a gene chip having a plurality of different oligonucleotides attached to a first surface of the solid support and having specificity for a plurality of genes wherein at least about 50 of the genes are common to those of the malignancy risk genes in Table 3. In one embodiment at least about 70 80 90 or 95 of the genes in the gene chip are common to those of the malignancy risk genes in Table 3.

In another aspect of the invention the invention provides a gene chip having a plurality of different oligonucleotides attached to a first surface of the solid support and having specificity for a plurality of genes wherein at least about 50 of the genes are common to those of the malignancy risk genes in Table 7. In one embodiment at least about 70 80 90 or 95 of the genes in the gene chip are common to those of the malignancy risk genes in Table 7.

In another aspect of the invention the invention provides a gene chip having a plurality of different oligonucleotides attached to a first surface of the solid support and having specificity for a plurality of genes wherein at least about 50 of the genes are common to those of the malignancy risk genes in Table 8. In one embodiment at least about 70 80 90 or 95 of the genes in the gene chip are common to those of the malignancy risk genes in Table 8.

In another aspect of the invention the invention provides a gene chip having a plurality of different oligonucleotides attached to a first surface of the solid support and having specificity for a plurality of genes wherein at least about 50 of the genes are common to those of the malignancy risk genes in B B or A. In one embodiment at least about 70 80 90 or 95 of the genes in the gene chip are common to those of the malignancy risk genes in B B or A.

In another aspect of the invention the invention provides a gene chip having a plurality of different oligonucleotides attached to a first surface of the solid support and having specificity for a plurality of genes wherein at least about 50 of the genes are common to those of the malignancy risk genes in Table 6 but does not include at least about one of the genes in . In one embodiment at least about 70 80 90 or 95 of the genes in the gene chip are common to those of the malignancy risk genes in Table 6 but does not include at least about one of the genes in . In other embodiments the gene chip includes at least about 70 80 90 or 95 of the genes in the gene chip are common to those of the malignancy risk genes in Table 6 but does not include at least about 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 or 15 or more of the genes in .

In another aspect the invention provides a gene chip having a plurality of different oligonucleotides attached to a first surface of the solid support and having specificity for a plurality of genes wherein at least about 50 of the genes are common to those of the malignancy risk genes in Table 6 but does not include at least about one of the genes in . In other embodiments the malignancy risk gene signature does not include at least about 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 or 15 or more of the genes in .

In another aspect the invention provides a gene chip having a plurality of different oligonucleotides attached to a first surface of the solid support and having specificity for a plurality of genes wherein at least about 50 of the genes are common to those of the malignancy risk genes in Table 6 but does not include at least about one of the genes in . In other embodiments the malignancy risk gene signature does not include at least about 2 3 4 5 6 or more of the genes in .

In one aspect the gene chip comprises at least about 10 genes from the 140 malignancy risk genes in Table 6. In other embodiments the gene chip comprises at least about 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 70 75 80 85 90 95 100 105 110 115 120 125 130 135 or more malignancy risk genes are used to make these determinations of risk of developing breast cancer having recurrent breast cancer or to have metastasis of breast cancer.

In another aspect the gene chip comprises at least about 10 genes selected from the list consisting of APOBEC3B C6orf115 CASC5 CORO2A FAM83D HIST1H2BF MOBK1B WDSOF1 IQGAP3 AMOTL2 CCDC50 CHRDL1 GPRASP1 MAGI2 RBMS3 SYNPO2 Affymetrix probe set id 213158 at Affymetrix probe set id 226250 at Affymetrix probe set id 226252 at Affymetrix probe set id 227082 at Affymetrix probe set id 227121 at Affymetrix probe set id 227646 at Affymetrix probe set id 227719 at Affymetrix probe set id 235556 at Affymetrix probe set id 235570 at and Affymetrix probe set id 243584 at. In other embodiments the gene chip comprises at least about 15 20 25 or more selected from the list consisting of APOBEC3B C6orf115 CASC5 CORO2A FAM83D HIST1H2BF MOBK1B WDSOF1 IQGAP3 AMOTL2 CCDC50 CHRDL1 GPRASP1 MAGI2 RBMS3 SYNPO2 Affymetrix probe set id 213158 at Affymetrix probe set id 226250 at Affymetrix probe set id 226252 at Affymetrix probe set id 227082 at Affymetrix probe set id 227121 at Affymetrix probe set id 227646 at Affymetrix probe set id 227719 at Affymetrix probe set id 235556 at Affymetrix probe set id 235570 at and Affymetrix probe set id 243584 at. In another embodiment the gene chip comprises all of the following genes the list consisting of APOBEC3B C6orf115 CASC5 CORO2A FAM83D HIST1H2BF MOBK1B WDSOF1 IQGAP3 AMOTL2 CCDC50 CHRDL1 GPRASP1 MAGI2 RBMS3 SYNPO2 Affymetrix probe set id 213158 at Affymetrix probe set id 226250 at Affymetrix probe set id 226252 at Affymetrix probe set id 227082 at Affymetrix probe set id 227121 at Affymetrix probe set id 227646 at Affymetrix probe set id 227719 at Affymetrix probe set id 235556 at Affymetrix probe set id 235570 at and Affymetrix probe set id 243584 at.

One aspect of the invention provides a kit comprising a any of the gene chips described herein and b one of the computer readable mediums described herein.

In some embodiments the arrays include probes for at least about 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 15 20 25 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 110 120 130 or 140 of the genes listed in Table 3 Table 6 Table 7 Table 8 and or . Where the subject arrays include probes for additional genes not listed in the tables in certain embodiments the number of additional genes that are represented does not exceed about 50 40 30 20 15 10 8 6 5 4 3 2 or 1 .

The kits of the subject invention may include the above described arrays. The kits may further include one or more additional reagents employed in the various methods such as primers for generating target nucleic acids dNTPs and or rNTPs which may be either premixed or separate one or more uniquely labeled dNTPs and or rNTPs such as biotinylated or Cy3 or Cy5 tagged dNTPs gold or silver particles with different scattering spectra or other post synthesis labeling reagent such as chemically active derivatives of fluorescent dyes enzymes such as reverse transcriptases DNA polymerases RNA polymerases and the like various buffer mediums e.g. hybridization and washing buffers prefabricated probe arrays labeled probe purification reagents and components like spin columns etc. signal generation and detection reagents e.g. streptavidin alkaline phosphatase conjugate chemifluorescent or chemiluminescent substrate and the like.

In addition to the above components the kits will further include instructions for practicing the methods and arrays described herein. These instructions may be present in the kits in a variety of forms one or more of which may be present in the kit. One form in which these instructions may be present is as printed information on a suitable medium or substrate e.g. a piece or pieces of paper on which the information is printed in the packaging of the kit in a package insert etc. Yet another means would be a computer readable medium e.g. diskette CD etc. on which the information has been recorded. Yet another means that may be present is a website address which may be used via the internet to access the information at a removed site. Any convenient means may be present in the kits.

The invention also contemplates computer readable media that comprises malignancy risk gene signatures. Such media can contain all of part of the malignancy risk gene signatures of the genes listed in Table 3 Table 6 Table 7 Table 8 and or . The media can be a list of the genes or contain the raw data for running a user s own statistical calculation such as the methods disclosed herein.

Another aspect of the invention provides a program product i.e. software product for use in a computer device that executes program instructions recorded in a computer readable medium to perform one or more steps of the methods described herein such for assessing the likelihood that an individual will develop breast cancer have recurrence of breast cancer and or metastasis.

On aspect of the invention provides a computer readable medium having computer readable program codes embodied therein the computer readable medium program codes performing one or more of the following functions defining the value of one or more risk values from the expression levels genes calculating the risk of developing breast cancer calculating the risk of developing breast cancer recurrence and calculating the risk of developing metastasis.

Another related aspect of the invention provides kits comprising the program product or the computer readable medium optionally with a computer system. On aspect of the invention provides a system the system comprising a computer a computer readable medium operatively coupled to the computer the computer readable medium program codes performing one or more of the following functions defining the value of one or more risk value from the expression levels genes calculating the risk of developing breast cancer calculating the risk of developing breast cancer recurrence and calculating the risk of developing metastasis.

In one embodiment the program product comprises a recordable medium and a plurality of computer readable instructions executable by the computer device to analyze data from the array hybridization steps to transmit array hybridization from one location to another or to evaluate genome wide location data between two or more genomes. Computer readable media include but are not limited to CD ROM disks CD R CD RW DVD RAM disks DVD RW disks floppy disks and magnetic tape.

A related aspect of the invention provides kits comprising the program products described herein. The kits may also optionally contain paper and or computer readable format instructions and or information such as but not limited to information on DNA microarrays on tutorials on experimental procedures on reagents on related products on available experimental data on using kits on chemotherapeutic agents including there toxicity and on other information. The kits optionally also contain in paper and or computer readable format information on minimum hardware requirements and instructions for running and or installing the software. The kits optionally also include in a paper and or computer readable format information on the manufacturers warranty information availability of additional software technical services information and purchasing information. The kits optionally include a video or other viewable medium or a link to a viewable format on the internet or a network that depicts the use of the use of the software and or use of the kits.

The analysis of data as well as the transmission of data steps can be implemented by the use of one or more computer systems. Computer systems are readily available. The processing that provides the displaying and analysis of image data for example can be performed on multiple computers or can be performed by a single integrated computer or any variation thereof. For example each computer operates under control of a central processor unit CPU such as a Pentium microprocessor and associated integrated circuit chips available from Intel Corporation of Santa Clara Calif. USA. A computer user can input commands and data from a keyboard and display mouse and can view inputs and computer output at a display. The display is typically a video monitor or flat panel display device. The computer also includes a direct access storage device DASD such as a fixed hard disk drive. The memory typically includes volatile semiconductor random access memory RAM .

Each computer typically includes a program product reader that accepts a program product storage device from which the program product reader can read data and to which it can optionally write data . The program product reader can include for example a disk drive and the program product storage device can include a removable storage medium such as for example a magnetic floppy disk an optical CD ROM disc a CD R disc a CD RW disc and a DVD data disc. If desired computers can be connected so they can communicate with each other and with other connected computers over a network. Each computer can communicate with the other connected computers over the network through a network interface that permits communication over a connection between the network and the computer.

The computer operates under control of programming steps that are temporarily stored in the memory in accordance with conventional computer construction. When the programming steps are executed by the CPU the pertinent system components perform their respective functions. Thus the programming steps implement the functionality of the system as described above. The programming steps can be received from the DASD through the program product reader or through the network connection. The storage drive can receive a program product read programming steps recorded thereon and transfer the programming steps into the memory for execution by the CPU. As noted above the program product storage device can include any one of multiple removable media having recorded computer readable instructions including magnetic floppy disks and CD ROM storage discs. Other suitable program product storage devices can include magnetic tape and semiconductor memory chips. In this way the processing steps necessary for operation can be embodied on a program product.

Alternatively the program steps can be received into the operating memory over the network. In the network method the computer receives data including program steps into the memory through the network interface after network communication has been established over the network connection by well known methods understood by those skilled in the art. The computer that implements the client side processing and the computer that implements the server side processing or any other computer device of the system can include any conventional computer suitable for implementing the functionality described herein.

It will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that methods involved in the present invention may be embodied in a computer program product that includes a computer usable and or readable medium. For example such a computer usable medium may consist of a read only memory device such as a CD ROM disk or conventional ROM devices or a random access memory such as a hard drive device or a computer diskette having a computer readable program code stored thereon.

The following examples are provided to illustrate aspects of the invention but are not intended to limit the invention in any manner.

Tissues were collected in accordance with the protocols approved by the Institutional Review Board of the University of South Florida and stored in the tissue bank of Moffitt Cancer Center. Breast tissues from patients that underwent mastectomy at various stages of breast carcinoma were collected and frozen in liquid nitrogen. The tissues were embedded in Tissue Tek O.C.T. 5 m sections cut and mounted on Mercedes Platinum StarFrost Adhesive slides. The slides were stained using a standard H E protocol and tissue boundaries marked. Using the marked slide as a map tissues were microdissected. Adipose tissues were trimmed away the tumor and normal tissues were separated and stored in liquid nitrogen.

Histological examination of all tissue sections and microdissection of samples were conducted by pathologist to ensure consistency in the clinical diagnoses. From a large invasive breast cancer database a set of 42 histologically invasive ductal carcinomas IDC were identified with various histologic grades the modified Bloom and Richardson grading . In addition to 42 IDCs 143 histologically normal breast tissues were selected which were free of any other breast lesions.

Total RNA was extracted from breast tissues using the Trizol method. Briefly tissues were ground in liquid nitrogen resuspended in 5 ml of lysis buffer and incubated for 3 min. at room temperature and centrifuged at 11 500 g for 15 minutes at 4 . The aqueous phase was removed and put into another tube with 2.5 ml of isopropanol mixed well and set at 20 C. for 20 minutes. DNA was pelleted by centrifuging at 11 500 g for 10 minutes at 4 C. The pellet was washed with 75 ethanol and resuspended in 100 l of deionized water. The amount of RNA was quantitated by measuring A.

Statistical analysis was done by performing a comparison of normal breast and IDC tissues to develop IDC gene signature. Outlier tissues potential high risk normal breast tissue were then identified from the normal breast tissue using the IDC gene signature and used to develop outlier gene signature from the outlier tissues. A pathway analysis was performed for IDC and outlier gene signatures to demonstrate the uniqueness of the outlier gene signature. Finally the outlier gene signature was validated regarding the features of cancer risk prediction disease progression and prognosis in a series of external gene expression datasets for breast cancer.

Briefly in the first step Statistical Analysis of Microarray SAM was used to develop IDC gene signature which discriminates between the normal and IDC tissues. In the second step this IDC gene signature was used as reference and applied the outlier tissue approach OTA to identify histologically normal breast tissues that had acquired the molecular fingerprint of IDC and these tissues are referred to as outlier normal tissues to reflect their potential risk for tumor development. The OTA ranks all the normal tissues for each gene. If a normal tissue has its percentile rank over 80 for a majority of up regulated genes and or below 20 for most down regulated genes it was considered an outlier normal tissue. An outlier normal tissue tends to show higher level of expression of these genes up or down regulated and greater likelihood of cancer development. In the third step once outlier normal tissues were identified a percentile rank approach was used to find a common set of genes outlier genes . Specifically genes with expression percentile rank of greater than 80 or less than 20 in most outlier normal tissues were selected as outlier genes. Pathway analysis was done using MetaCore by GeneGo in the step 4. The validation step step 5 was implemented by first identifying overlapped outlier genes and then performing principal component analysis PCA for prediction.

An IDC gene signature 1 554 probe sets 1038 unique genes was first developed from a set of 42 IDC and 143 normal breast tissues. This analysis was done using Statistical Analysis of Microarrayand based on a cutoff of false discovery rate FDR 2. Pathway analysis revealed two predominant cellular processes cell cycle and cell adhesion as seen in . There were 10 cell adhesion pathways and 7 cell cycle pathways with a significant p value 

11 outlier breast tissues were identified using the outlier tissue approach see for example Methods section infra to re evaluate the 143 normal breast tissues whose gene expression profiles more closely approximated that of the IDC samples rather than the rest of the 132 normal breast tissues. Eight of these 11 outlier tissues had a median percentile rank greater than 80 among all the 143 normal tissues i.e. the top 20 at the 2 3 and 4 fold change cutoffs shown in . The other 3 outlier tissues had a median percentile rank less than 20 i.e. the bottom 20 for the under expressed probe sets. Distinction of the outlier tissues from the normal breast tissues was further demonstrated in .

An outlier gene signature was developed by forming a common set of genes whose expression varied up or down at high levels in the 11 outlier tissues. The outlier genes consisted of 109 up regulated probe sets 96 unique genes and 31 down regulated probe sets 21 unique genes . Of the entire list presented in and Table 6 a subset of outlier genes was selected seen in and Table 7. Expression of the outlier genes discriminated the normal outlier and IDC tissues from each other. See .

Pathway analysis showed that the outlier gene set was remarkably over represented by cell cycle genes. There were 11 cell cycle related pathways represented in the outlier signature p value 

Principal component analysis PCA was applied for the outlier gene signature using all IDC and normal breast tissues excluding the outlier and the adjacent breast tissues to calculate the first PCA score for IDC normal outlier the adjacent normal tissues. showed that the median of the first PCA score was highest in the outlier tissues followed by the adjacent normal tissues p value 0.0015 based on t test for the outlier versus the adjacent normal tissues . The normal breast tissue had the lowest score p value 0.011 for the comparison of the adjacent normal tissues to the normal breast tissues .

Examples 8 12 below describe the external validation of the inventors malignancy risk signature. The value of the outlier gene signature was assessed on five external independent data sets. These external datasets permitted the evaluation of a number of properties of the outlier signature including differentiation of normal versus IDC tissues disease progression cancer risk and metastasis.

This study examined 10 patients 5 IDCs and 5 ILCs and collected one tumor tissue IDC or ILC with two normal tissues ductal or lobular cells from each subject. The PCA model was applied to obtain the first PCA score for the 5 IDCs and the associated 10 normal breast tissues. Results showed the first PCA score was higher in IDC than in normal tissue within the same patient p value 0.029 based on the random effect model to control for subject variation . See and Table 8. This result indicated the outlier gene signature was able to differentiate IDC from normal tissue.

A set of 23 DCIS samples were collected to evaluate the disease progression feature of the outlier gene signature. Based on the PCA model derived from the previous 132 normal breast and 42 IDC tissues excluding the 11 outlier tissues the first PCA score were calculated for the DCIS tissues. Results showed a clear progression pattern from normal breast outlier DCIS to IDC shown in . Ranking the disease status from 0 to 3 for normal breast to IDC the calculated Pearson or Spearman correlation was 0.87 and 0.8 respectively with a significant p value 

Further analysis using logistic regression model with the normal group as the control group yielded a significant association OR 1.73 2 and 1.76 for IDC like normal DCIS and IDC respectively with p value 

Eight ADH 30 DCIS and 23 IDC samples were collected and cDNA microarray used to generate expression data. There were 21 genes overlapping with the outlier gene signature. Univariate analysis of these 21 genes showed a majority of them with a statistically significant fold change 2 shown in to . Moreover 16 genes showed an increasing pattern from ADH to IDC based on the first PCA score. and adjusted p value 

Background To further evaluate the potential of the malignancy risk signature to predict the risk of cancer progression the Ma et al. data were analyzed. The study collected 8 atypical ductal hyperplastic ADH 30 DCIS and 23 IDC samples and used cDNA microarray to generate expression data. There were 21 genes in common with the malignancy risk gene signature. We compared the malignancy risk score among the three groups ADH DCIS and IDC.

Data Analysis We used the 21 genes to calculate the malignancy risk genes see Statistical Methods see Example 13 . Correlation analysis was used to assess cancer progression and logistics regression model was used to examine the association of the malignancy risk score with cancer status.

Results Correlation analysis showed an increasing pattern of the risk score with cancer progression from ADH to IDC the first panel . Pearson or Spearman correlation coefficient was 0.5 with a significant p value 

Four ADH tissues were collected from patients without a history of breast cancer and another 4 ADH tissues from patients where breast cancer developed labeled as ADHC. There were 102 probe sets that overlapped with the outlier gene signature. PCA was applied to these 102 probe sets for the 4 ADHs and 4 ADHCs. The results showed that the ADHC group had a higher score than the ADH group for the first PCA score seen in . The majority of ADHC tissues 3 out of 4 yielded a score above 5 in contrast to most ADH tissues which had negative scores. The ADH group had a narrow range of scores between 1 and 2 in the second PCA while ADHC yielded a wide range of scores. As a result the first two PCA scores in the scatter plot were able to distinguish between ADH and ADHC.

Background This study was selected in order to assess the potential of the malignancy risk score to predict the risk of future cancer development in the breast associated with ADH. This study collected 4 ADH tissues from patients without a history of breast cancer we labeled these tissues as ADHN and another 4 ADH tissues from patients where breast cancer developed we labeled these tissues as ADHC . There were 102 probe sets in common with the malignancy risk gene signature. We compared the malignancy risk score between the two groups ADHN and ADHC .

Data analysis We used the 102 probe sets to calculate malignancy risk score. Logistic regression model was used to assess cancer risk. This was done in two ways. One was to use the median risk score to dichotomize patients into two risk groups high risk with score median and low risk with score 

Results Analysis results from logistic regression model showed that the ADHC group had a higher risk score than the ADHN group although the odds ratio was not statistically significant OR 1.4 with p 0.123 for the continuous risk score and OR 9.0 with p 0.178 for the median cutoff risk score due to a very limited sample size n 4 per group . Notably three out the four ADHC patients had a risk score above 5 with a cancer risk Probability 0.8 based on the continuous risk score in contrast to most ADHN patients with negative scores and a low cancer risk probability. Two sample t test for the malignancy risk score yielded a p value 0.08. For univariate analysis there were 16 genes with p value 

78 breast cancer patient samples were collected and the time to metastasis was determined using a 70 gene signature and cDNA array. An independent set of 295 cancer patients were collected as validation for the 70 gene signature. The two datasets were used to examine if the outlier genes can predict metastasis. There were 117 features that overlapped with the outlier gene signature. First PCA scores were calculated based on these 117 features. The patients were grouped into low and high risk groups by dichotomizing the first PCA score based on kmeanand the recursive partitioning and regression tree method. Logrank tests showed a significant separation between the two risk groups 15.2 with p

Background This study collected one training set a total of 78 breast cancer patient samples and one test set n 295 patients including 32 patients from the training set with the time to metastasis as the clinical outcome to develop a 70 gene signature. In our study we used the training set n 78 and the test set which excluded the 32 patients from the training set n 263 to examine if the malignancy risk genes could predict metastasis. There were 117 features that were in common with the malignancy risk gene signature. Among them there were 7 genes in common between the 70 gene signature and the malignancy risk gene signature.

Data analysis We compared performance of survival analysis for the 3 gene signatures malignancy risk signature 70 gene signature and 7 genes in common based on the malignancy risk score.

Malignancy risk score We first evaluated the overall performance of the 117 features for the malignancy risk gene signature. The risk score was calculated by converting expression of the genes into the first principal component score based on principal component analysis method see Statistical Methods see Example 13 . We used median of the risk score as cutoff to dichotomize the 78 patients training set into two risk groups. The median cutoff of the risk score from the training set was also used to dichotomize the patients into two risk groups for the test set n 263 . Log rank test showed a significant separation between the two risk groups 2 12.2 with p 0.0005 for the training data and 2 22.4 with p

Results The three gene signatures performed well to separate survival curves of the two risk groups for both datasets training and test sets . The 70 gene signature performed the best because the signature was derived from the dataset Figure A . However the performance for the malignancy risk signature was comparable to the 70 gene signature especially in the test set. Even for the 7 genes in common it also had a comparable performance . Univariate Cox proportional hazards model also showed 48 genes with p value 

Identification of high risk normal tissue has great potential application in clinical practice in both evaluating the risk associated with routine breast biopsies as well as the risk of local recurrence following lumpectomy. Detecting high risk normal tissue however remains a challenging task. The invention described herein provides in one aspect identifying high risk normal tissue using gene expression profiles. One underlying rationale to which the inventors are not bound for this invention is a histologically normal tissue with tumor like gene expression pattern might harbor substantial risk for future cancer development. Genes associated with these high risk tissues were referred to as outlier genes. Using this rationale 11 outlier tissues out of 143 normal breast tissues were identified and the outlier gene signature was developed using the outlier tissue approach. A careful re examination of all outlier tissues showed the tissues were histologically normal with no observable indications of cancer development. See . However the expression profile of these outlier tissues suggested similarity to tumor tissue indicating that these tissues might harbor increased risk for cancer development.

The outlier gene signature was tested in four validations. The first verified that the outlier genes identified in histologically normal breast tissues adjacent to invasive cancers were also highly associated with invasive ductal carcinomas IDC . The Turashvili et al.dataset was used for evaluation and the outlier gene signature was found able to differentiate the IDC and normal tissues not linked to cancer confirming the outlier genes as a subset of IDC tumor associated genes.

The second validation tested the risk of disease progression where cancer risk was considered on a continuous spectrum with normal tissue in the lower end and IDC tissue at the higher end. As ADH and DCIS have been shown as precursors of IDC it was ascertained whether the outlier gene signature exhibited a progressive trend from normal to IDC with ADH and DCIS as intermediate stages in the cancer risk spectrum. The existence of a strong trend with these features would provide a compelling evidence for the application of this signature on early prevention of cancer development. The outlier genes were tested on two datasets Moffitt Cancer Center derived DCIS samples and Ma et al data. Results from both datasets showed first PCA scores for the ADH or DCIS tissues were higher than outlier tissues but lower than IDC showing a disease progression pattern from outlier to ADH to DCIS to IDC. See and . Moreover 16 genes in the Ma dataset were identified that overlapped with the outlier signature with an increasing expression pattern from ADH to IDC seen in and to . The majority of the overlapping genes are known to be involved in the cell cycle. Since these genes were highly associated with cell proliferation and exhibited expression changes that were proportional to disease stage these genes might be risk genes precursor genes useful in predicting cancer development and recurrence.

The third validation was to evaluate the capability of the outlier gene signature in predicting cancer development risk using the Poola s dataset. Analysis showed 3 out of 4 ADHC patients had an unusually high PCA score. This result supports the concept that outlier gene signatures can predict cancer risk. Furthermore the ADH gene signature and the outlier gene signature shared similar cellular proliferation functions. Specifically the Poola s study reported 11 major categories of cellular functions and most genes were up regulated in ADHC patients. Two of 11 up regulated functions were cell cycle check points and nucleic acid biosynthesis. The majority of over expressed genes in both functions were found in the outlier gene signature. See .

The last validation assessment tested prognostic features. While the outlier gene signature may be principally useful to assess cancer risk this property was assessed in a broader scope. Since patients with high cancer risk are likely to develop metastasis the outlier genes may play a key role for disease development. Validation results of Vant der Veer et al. breast metastasis dataset further supported this rationale. The overlapping 7 genes between the outlier signature and the Vant der Veer et al. dataset see identified patients at risk for metastasis and were mainly involved in proliferation.

While identification of high risk normal tissue is crucial it is also important to understand the basic mechanism of how the molecular function changes in high risk normal tissue. The outlier gene signature showed significant expression in these 11 outlier tissues which were molecularly suspect but histologically normal tissues. Adjacent normal tissues to the outlier tissues also showed a relatively higher expression of this gene signature than the rest of normal tissues seen in . Furthermore the pathway analysis showed the outlier genes were predominantly comprised of cell cycle activities. Further the outlier genes were highly associated with two proliferation related pathways DNA replication and mitosis 14 and 25 up regulated outlier genes respectively as shown in through . While the primary function of the majority of these genes spans a variety of metabolic processes it is clear that nearly all of the components are associated with cellular proliferation a process that should be limited in normal tissues.

Moreover the outlier genes were highly associated with chromosomal instability CIN chromosomal damage during cell division and a potential driving force for tumor initiation. There were 15 up regulated outlier genes in the CIN25 gene signature with an outstanding CIN score and another 13 up regulated outlier genes in the CIN70 gene signature. The high correlation with CIN evidences that the outlier gene signature can explain early stages of cancer development and provides a simple mechanistic perspective on distinguishing outlier samples in a population of normal tissues.

Finally it is clear that up to 40 of patients undergoing lumpectomy are at risk for local recurrence of breast cancer and that this risk might be predictable based on an outlier gene signature. Moreover it is also clear that radiotherapy mitigates this risk suggesting that the genes identified in high risk patients could be the target genes for effective radiotherapy. If an over expression of these genes might result in a new cancer suppression of these genes via radiotherapy might prevent the development of cancer.

In summary using over a hundred of histologically normal breast tissues an outlier gene signature of potential risk has been identified. This signature has a number of potential clinical applications such as judging risk of breast cancer development following routine breast biopsy judging the need for adjuvant radiotherapy and determining the need for completion of mastectomy following lumpectomy for the breast cancer patient.

Tissues were collected in accordance with the protocols approved by the Institutional Review Board of the University of South Florida and stored in the tissue bank of Moffitt Cancer Center. The tissues were embedded in Tissue Tek O.C.T. 5 m sections cut and mounted on Mercedes Platinum StarFrost Adhesive slides. The slides were stained using a standard H E protocol and tissue boundaries marked. Using the marked slide as a map tissues were microdissected. Adipose tissues were trimmed away. Both histologically normal breast tissues and IDCs were derived from 90 patients that underwent mastectomy for various stages of breast carcinoma and were collected and frozen in liquid nitrogen. Clinico pathological data from the patients used in the study including the tumor ER PR and Her2 Neu status and tumor grade are shown in Table 1. When possible each mastectomy specimen was prosected to yield an IDC and up to five sequentially derived adjacent normal tissue samples in the ipsilateral breast or from the four quadrants of the contralateral breast. As a result we collected 42 IDCs and 143 normal breast tissues from the 90 patients for microarray analysis. Due to RNA quality issue in some IDC and normal tissues we did not have a complete set of IDC and normal tissues for some patients. There were 11 patients a total of 34 tissues with at least one normal and one IDC tissue 19 patients a total of 28 tissues with IDC tissue only and 60 patients a total of 123 tissues with normal tissue only. Table 2 lists number of normal and IDC tissues and their geographical locations relative to the incident tumor see also .

Based on the histopathologic review by one breast pathologist AN all of the 143 histologically normal breast tissues were confirmed to be free of atypical ductal hyperplasia ADH and in situ or invasive breast carcinoma. The 42 IDC tissues were also confirmed by the histopathologic review by the same pathologist based on the modified Bloom and Richardson grading scheme.

Total RNA was extracted from the breast tissues using the Trizol method. Briefly tissues were pulverized in liquid nitrogen resuspended in 5 ml of lysis buffer incubated for 3 min. at room temperature and centrifuged at 11 500 g for 15 minutes at 4 . The aqueous phase was removed and put into another tube with 2.5 ml of isopropanol mixed well and set at 20 C. for 20 minutes. The amount of RNA was quantitated by measuring A260. Microarray analysis was performed using the Affymetrix U133Plus 2.0 GeneChips 54 675 probe sets . Expression values were calculated using the robust multi array average RMA algorithm Data is in the GEO repository www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov geo query acc.cgi acc GSE10780.

Validation of 30 selected malignancy risk signature genes of 117 available see Table 3 was done using the TaqMan Low Density Arrays Applied Biosystems Foster City Calif. USA . Due to limitation of sample availability 5 IDC like normal tissues 8 IDCs and 8 normal tissues were used for validation. Single stranded cDNA was synthesized from 1 ug of total RNA using random primers in a 20 uL reaction volume using Applied Biosystem s High Capacity cDNA Reverse Transcription kit. The 20 uL reactions were incubated in a thermal cycler for 10 min at 25 C. 120 min at 37 C. 5 sec at 85 C. and then held at 4 C. Real time PCR was carried out using sequence specific primers probes on the Applied Biosystems 7900 HT Real Time PCR system. cDNA was diluted 2.5 fold 5.0 uL of diluted cDNA was mixed with 45 uL of nuclease free water and was added to 50 uL of TaqMan Universal PCR Master Mix Applied Biosystems . The 100 uL total reaction mixture was loaded in the corresponding ports of a TaqMan Low Density Array TLDA card. Each TLDA card consisted of 3 replicates 4 samples per card . Expression value Ct was calculated by first averaging replicates for each gene and then normalized subtraction by an endogenous control gene 18S . Since a lower value of Ct indicates a higher expression a Ct was used to correlate with microarray gene expression.

Statistical analysis included a series of steps to develop and validate the malignancy risk gene signature see 

1. Identification of IDC gene signature In this first step a set of 1038 genes 1 554 probe sets was identified that distinguished the IDCs n 42 from the histologically normal tissues n 143 . The IDC gene set was identified by treating IDC and normal tissues as two independent groups although some were derived from the same patients and using Statistical Analysis of Microarrayat 1 false discovery rate FDR with a fold change 2 see . The study aimed to collect multiple normal and IDC tissues from the same subjects but due the heterogeneous nature of the sample set some patients had only normal tissues sampled while others samples were limited to IDC tissues only. This nature of unbalanced data made it difficult to adjust for subject variation. Instead we aggregated data into normal and IDC two groups for comparison. To ensure homogeneity for data aggregation we checked whether overall gene expression from the normal tissues in patients with normal tissues available only was similar to the normal tissues in patients with both normal and IDC tissues available. We used Kmeans approach to classify all the normal tissues into two groups based on gene expression data. Fisher exact test did not show the two types of normal tissues were statistically different p 0.53 . We found similar results for the IDC tissues p 0.99 . These results suggested homogeneity for the two types of normal tissues also for the IDC tissues .

2. Identification of IDC like normal tissues In this step we used the IDC gene signature to identify 11 histologically normal breast tissues that had acquired the molecular fingerprint of IDC. The method first ranked all the normal tissues for each IDC tumor gene. e.g. A normal tissue A is ranked as the top 1 percentile rank 100 for tumor gene X1 top 10 percentile rank 90 for tumor gene X2 top 20 for tumor gene X3 and so on . As a result for the up regulated IDC tumor genes e.g. k1 genes we will have a set k1 of the tissue percentile ranks for each tissue. If a normal tissue displayed at least half k of the percentile ranks over 80 i.e. the median percentile rank 0.8 we considered it as IDC like normal tissue. Similarly a normal tissue was also considered as an IDC like tissue if a normal tissue had the median of the percentile ranks below 20 for down regulated IDC tumor genes. A graphical presentation of the method is included in the .

A simulation was conducted and showed its effectiveness to identify IDC like tissues Table 4 . Simulation Scheme We generate two groups normal and tumor tissues with a sample size of 150 normal and 50 tumor . We assume each gene chip contains 50 000 genes and these genes are independent. We consider a series of proportion of significant genes from 1 to 10 for evaluation. Here we label IDC like normal tissue as outlier tissue .

For non significant genes their expressions follow a standard normal distribution i.e. N 0 1 for both normal and tumor tissues. For significant genes half of them have a higher expression in tumor tissue up regulation with a normal distribution of N 1 1 and half of them a lower expression in tumor tissue down regulation with a normal distribution of N 1 1 . On the other hand the gene expression in normal tissue follows a standard normal distribution except the outlier normal tissues. Here we assume 10 normal tissues to be outlier with a tumor like gene expression profile. For these outlier tissues we assume they have the same expression distribution as the tumor ones i.e. N 1 1 or N 1 1 .

At each simulation we use the Statistical Analysis of Microarray SAM and the outlier tissue approach OTA to analyze the simulated data. The threshold settings for SAM and OTA are the same as the ones used in our breast expression data. That is we use a cutoff of false discovery rate FDR 2 in SAM to select tumor genes. For OTA we use the median percentile rank 0.8 in the up regulated tumor genes or the median percentile rank 

Evaluation We perform 100 simulations. Each simulation generates a 2 2 table which allows us to calculate sensitivity and predictive value positive PV for evaluation. We average each measure i.e. sensitivity and PV over 100 simulations to examine performance.

Rationale for the use of sensitivity and PV Since outlier tissue is likely rare the proportion of the outlier tissue is expected to be small. Because of this feature accuracy rate the proportion to be classified correctly tends to be high even sensitivity or PV is low. In addition we would like to have a procedure that yields most outlier tissues selected i.e. high sensitivity and has few or none of false outlier tissues selected i.e. high PV . For this reason we consider the use of both sensitivity and PV to examine our approach. The curve of sensitivity versus PV in fact is equivalent to the conventional Receiver Operating Characteristic ROC curve i.e. sensitivity versus 1 specificity or true positive versus false positive . However the conventional ROC curve focuses one aspect of evaluation of a screening test without considering the other curve e.g. a high sensitivity does not guarantee a high or low PV . In contrast we present a unique evaluation of sensitivity versus PV to effectively assess the procedure.

Results Simulation results show a high value of sensitivity and PV by the proposed approach in various proportions of significant genes 1 10 see Table 4B . This observation demonstrates effectiveness of the approach in identifying outlier tissue.

3. Derive malignancy risk gene score Once the IDC like normal tissues were identified we then formed a common set of genes malignancy risk signature genes whose expression percentile rank was greater than 80 or less than 20 in most IDC like normal tissues. Using the principal components analysis PCA method we derived a risk score malignancy risk score to represent an overall gene expression level for the malignancy risk gene signature. First we performed principal components analysis to reduce data dimension into a small set of uncorrelated principal components. This set of principal components was generated based on its ability to account for variation. We used the first principal component as it accounts for the largest variability in the data as a malignancy risk score to represent the overall expression level for the signature. That is malignancy risk score wx an weighted average expression among the malignancy risk genes where xi represents gene i expression level wi is the corresponding weight with w 1 and the wi values maximize the variance of wx.

It is likely when benign appearing breast tissues harbor malignancy risk genes the gene data will generate a high signal to noise ratio such that the first principal component with the largest variance will correspond to cancer risk related information.

4. Cross validation Leave one out cross validation LOOCV was performed to evaluate robustness of the IDC and malignancy risk gene signatures. This was done by excluding one sample at a time and repeating steps 1 3 to see how many were correctly identified IDC genes IDC like normal tissues and malignancy risk genes .

5. Pathway analysis Pathway analysis was done using MetaCore by GeneGo for steps 1 and 3 to identify biological functions associated with IDC genes and the malignancy risk genes. We compared pathways of the two gene sets to reveal difference of biological processes between the IDC genes and the malignancy risk genes.

6. RT PCR validation Pearson correlation was used to evaluate association of the malignancy risk score between microarray and RT PCR platforms. The malignancy risk score was calculated using the 30 selected malignancy risk signature genes see Statistical Methods for microarray and RT PCR respectively. Correlation analysis was also performed for each individual malignancy risk gene. Analysis of variance was used to test the differences among the three groups normal IDC like normal and IDC with the Tukey methodto adjust for p value for pair wise comparison.

7. Clinical association We assessed the prognostic potential of the malignancy risk score on seven external independent data sets. Because each data set had a different set of available genes we used whatever genes were in common with the malignancy risk score to evaluate each data set essentially a subset of the original malignancy risk score . For binary clinical outcome e.g. cancer development versus no development or survival outcome e.g. time to metastasis the derived malignancy risk score was dichotomized using the median cutoff i.e. high risk with score median and low risk with score 

The 11 IDC like normal breast tissues identified in Example 3 where analyzed for their ER PR and Her2 neu status. Fisher exact test showed no significant association of patients harboring IDC like normal tissues with ER PR Her2 grade Table 5 

The malignancy risk score equivalent to PCA score was analyzed by Leave one out crossvalidation LOOCV . Leave one out cross validation LOOCV was implemented by excluding one sample at a time and repeating statistical steps 1 3 i.e. IDC genes outlier tissues which can be used to represent IDC like normal tissue and malignancy risk genes see Statistical Methods . In other words each time we hold one sample as a test sample and used the rest samples to identify an IDC gene set step 1 . The selected IDC genes were then used to identify outlier tissues step 2 . We used these selected outlier tissues to identify malignancy risk genes step 3 . These malignancy risk genes were used to predict the malignancy risk score for the sample being hold. As a result each time we collected four metrics a set of IDC genes a set of outlier tissues a set of malignancy risk genes and the predicted malignancy risk score for the sample being hold . We examined the first three metrics from LOOCV to see how consistent with the ones from the whole dataset. Analysis of LOOCV yielded a high degree of consistency most IDC genes 98 outlier tissues 90 and malignancy risk genes 90 were identified at each leave one out iteration Moreover at each iteration we calculated a predicted malignancy risk score for the sample being excluded. Correlation analysis showed a high correlation of the predicted malignancy risk score and the disease status i.e. rank normal outlier and IDC from 0 to 2 Pearson correlation 0.89 and Spearman correlation 0.74 with p

Since ER PR and Her2 are key markers in cancer development we examined their correlation with the malignancy risk score. Results showed only a weak correlation for ER and PR r 0.2 0.3 and a moderate correlation with Her2 r 0.37 0.47 by spearman correlation and r 0.43 0.63 by Pearson correlation suggesting relative independence of the risk score from these biomarkers 

We identified 11 IDC like normal tissues from 10 patients. There were another 12 normal tissues collected from the same 10 patients. These 12 normal tissues were molecularly and histologically normal and labeled as matched normal tissues to reflect they were derived from the same subject. The other normal tissues n 120 from subjects without IDC like normal tissues i.e. not from the 10 subjects were also molecularly and histologically normal and labeled as unmatched normal tissues for distinction. We found the malignancy risk score was higher in the IDC like normal tissues and the matched normal tissues than in the unmatched normal tissues. Difference of the risk score was statistically significant for a IDC like normal tissues versus the matched normal tissues adjusted p value 

Expression of the 30 selected malignancy risk signature genes identified by microarray profiling was successfully validated by RT PCR. The 30 genes were selected based on expression and biological relevance. There were 27 genes showing a strong Pearson correlation 0.7 correlation 0.9 12 genes 0.8 0.9 13 and 0.7 0.8 2 the p values were 

Examples 19 21 describe the clinical association of malignancy risk signature with cancer risk cancer relapse progression and prognosis. We assessed the malignancy risk score on three additional external independent datasets see also Examples 8 12 . Statistical procedures were described in Statistical Methods Section. These external datasets as well as the datasets presented in Examples 8 12 permitted the evaluation of a number of properties of the malignancy risk signature including cancer risk cancer relapse progression and cancer prognosis. Table 9 summarizes the results for all these datasets.

Background There were 155 patients 52 patients with relapse R and 103 patients with relapse free RF who received adjuvant tamoxifen. The primary tumors from these patients were analyzed for expression profiles at the whole genome level by 70 mer oligonucleotide microarrays 22 656 genes . There were 61 genes in common with the malignancy risk gene signature which was used to calculate the malignancy risk score.

Results Analysis by a median cutoff of the risk score i.e. high risk with score median and low risk with score 

Background The data includes 286 lymph node negative breast patients with metastasis free survival as clinical survival outcome. A 76 gene signature was derived from this dataset to predict distant metastasis. The microarray platform was Affymetrix Human U133a GeneChips. We normalized data using quantile quantile method. There were 102 probe sets from the 20K probe sets in common with the malignancy risk gene signature. There were only 4 genes in common between the 76 gene signature and the malignancy risk gene signature.

Data analysis We compared performance of survival analysis for the 3 gene signatures malignancy risk signature 76 gene signature and 4 genes in common based on the malignancy risk score.

Malignancy risk score We first evaluated the overall performance of the 102 probe sets for the malignancy risk gene signature. The risk score was calculated by converting expression of the genes into the first principal component score based on principal component analysis method see Statistical Methods . We used median of the risk score as cutoff to dichotomize the 286 patients into two risk groups. Log rank test showed a significant separation of KM survival curves between the two risk groups 2 12.6 p 0.0004 . The risk score was calculated in the same way for the 76 gene signature and 4 common genes respectively. Univariate Cox proportional hazards model was also used to test individual gene effect of the 102 genes on the metastasis free survival.

Results The three gene signatures performed well to separate survival curves of the two risk groups . The 76 gene signature performed the best because the signature was derived from this dataset . However the performance for the malignancy risk signature was almost comparable to the 76 gene signature. Even for the 4 genes in common it also had a comparable performance . listed 64 genes of the 102 genes with p value 

Background The breast cancer microarray data reported by Huang et al. Huang et al. 2003 contained 18 patients with positive lymph node LN and 19 patients with negative LN. The gene expressions were obtained from the Affymetrix human U95a chip. Data were pre processed using RMA Irizarry et al. 2003 . There were 112 probe sets 82 unique genes in common with the outlier gene signature.

Data analysis We evaluated the association of the malignancy risk gene signature with lymph node development using the malignancy risk score and univariate analysis.

Results 1. Malignancy risk score The malignancy risk score was generated using expression data from the 112 probe sets. We used the median cutoff of the risk score to dichotomize patients into two risk groups high risk with score median and low risk with score 

Summary Results suggested that the outlier gene signature was associated with lymph node development LN positive tends to have a higher malignancy risk score .

Identification of normal tissue at risk for malignant conversion has great potential application in clinical practice in both evaluating the risk associated with routine breast biopsies as well as the risk of local recurrence following lumpectomy. Detecting these high risk normal appearing tissues however remains a challenging task. In one aspect of this invention we developed an innovative approach to identify histologically normal but molecularly abnormal tissue at risk for malignant degeneration. One rationale to which the inventors are not bound is that a histologically normal tissue with tumor like gene expression pattern might harbor substantial risk for future cancer development. Genes associated with these high risk tissues were referred to as malignancy risk genes . Based on this rationale we identified 11 IDC like normal tissues out of 143 normal breast tissues and developed the malignancy risk gene signature and risk score.

A careful re examination of all the IDC like normal tissues showed that they were histologically normal with no evidence of in situ or invasive carcinoma of the breast and no atypia . However these IDC like normal tissues showed gene expression profiles resembling invasive carcinomas indicating that these tissues had already acquired the molecular fingerprint of cancer and therefore may be at increased risk for subsequent cancer development. Moreover from these IDC like normal tissues we developed a malignancy risk gene signature that may serve as a marker of subsequent risk of breast cancer development. The malignancy risk gene signature was internally validated by RT PCR and leave one out cross validation. Analysis of external datasets also demonstrated its clinical relevance to cancer risk cancer relapse progression and prognosis. This is an intriguing finding with substantive clinical implications. While several studies may have suggested that cell cycle proliferation are one of the hallmarks of existing cancer this is the first study to suggest the proliferative program of gene expression may be the earliest detectable event in normal breast tissues at risk for developing breast cancer. A recently reported study of 14 normal breast tissues from breast cancer cases identified genes differentially expressed in these tissues versus normal breast reduction mammoplasties but did not decipher a predominantly proliferative gene function. The large preponderance of proliferative genes in the malignancy risk gene set was not expected. By comparison IDC associated genes were biased towards both proliferative and adhesive gene sets. These findings suggest a temporal relationship between proliferative and adhesive gene expression programs with the former being precursors to histological alterations and responsible for malignancy risk. There was also no statistical association of the IDC like normal tissues with ER PR Her2 neu and grade suggesting the malignancy risk signature may be not be dependent on these factors. The lack of association of the IDC like normal tissues with the triple negative ER PR Her2Neu phenotype also suggests no link to BRCA1 and BRCA2.

Evaluation on external independent datasets demonstrated the clinical relevance of the malignancy risk gene signature not only to cancer risk but also to cancer relapse progression and prognosis. As such the signature has promise for impacting clinical decisions. These include altering strategies for follow up of histologically normal but molecularly abnormal breast biopsies determining which patients might benefit from radiotherapy following lumpectomy or determining which patients might benefit from mastectomy due to multifocal disease risk.

