---

title: Method for producing cyclic organic compounds from crop oils
abstract: A method for producing products containing cyclic organic compounds from biomass oil includes adding a biomass oil to a vessel; heating the biomass oil to crack the biomass oil; removing undesired or unreacted materials, heavy ends, and light ends from the cracked biomass oil; and extracting components from the cracked biomass oil to produce a mixture of products containing between 5% and 90% cyclic organic compounds by weight. A method for producing a high-octane aviation fuel with low lead content includes cracking a biomass oil, separating a middle distillate mixture from cracked biomass oil, decarboxylating the middle distillate mixture to produce a mixture of products containing at least about 50% cyclic alkane and alkene compounds by weight, and blending the mixture of products with a fuel having an octane number below 95 to produce an aviation fuel having an octane number of at least 100.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08450541&OS=08450541&RS=08450541
owner: The University of North Dakota
number: 08450541
owner_city: Grand Forks
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20091125
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 118 066 filed Nov. 26 2008 the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The U.S. Government has a paid up license in this invention and the right in limited circumstances to require the patent owner to license others on reasonable terms as provided for by the terms of Contract No. 61047 awarded by the Federal Aviation Administration.

One of the key challenges facing modern industrialized society is the rapid depletion of crude oil which is the primary source for most transportation fuels and many organic chemicals. The petrochemical industry represents a substantial benefit to human society and the invention and commercialization of alternative sources for petrochemicals is of great importance.

One category of organic chemicals that is often produced from petroleum includes aromatics and cycloparaffins. These chemicals have a wide range of uses including serving as monomers for many types of polymers paints and coatings serving as chemical intermediates for many types of industrial and consumer chemicals and serving as valuable chemical components of heterogeneous transportation fuels such as gasoline diesel aviation gasoline and jet fuel.

Surprisingly very little work has been done to develop commercially relevant products rich in aromatics and or cycloparaffins generated from triacylglycerides TAGs and other fatty acids. Thus a need exists to provide an alternative source for these chemicals so that demand can be satisfied as the available supply of source material i.e. crude oil is depleted.

A method for producing chemical products containing cyclic organic compounds from biomass oil includes adding a biomass oil to a reactor vessel heating the biomass oil to a temperature ranging from about 100 C. to about 800 C. for a time sufficient to crack the biomass oil removing undesired materials unreacted biomass oil heavy ends and light ends from the cracked biomass oil and extracting components from the cracked biomass oil to produce a mixture of chemical products containing between 5 and 90 cyclic organic compounds by weight. The biomass oil is heated at a pressure between about vacuum conditions and about 2000 psia.

A method for producing a high octane aviation fuel with low lead content includes heating a biomass oil to a temperature between about 100 C. and about 800 C. to crack the biomass oil separating a middle distillate mixture from the cracked biomass oil decarboxylating the middle distillate mixture to produce a mixture of chemical products containing at least about 50 cyclic alkane and alkene compounds by weight and blending the mixture of chemical products with a fuel having an octane number below 95 to produce an aviation fuel having an octane number of at least 100. The biomass oil is heated at a pressure between about vacuum conditions and about 2000 psia. The middle distillate mixture contains at least about 50 cyclic organic compounds by weight. The aviation fuel contains lead at a concentration less than about 0.5 grams per liter.

Aromatic and cycloparaffin compounds can be produced from crop oils via chemical reaction using a zeolite based heterogeneous catalyst. The catalyst H ZSM 5 an aluminosilicate zeolite generally produces more aromatic compounds than other catalysts according to experiments with canola and palm oils. However the complex mixture of H ZSM 5 catalyzed reaction products limits the suitability of its use for the production of other chemicals. Furthermore the mixture of chemical reaction products produced by H ZSM 5 is not useful for applications such as aviation gasoline or JP 8 jet fuel as the mixture of products is a blend of gaseous solid aqueous liquid and organic liquid material.

The present invention unexpectedly resolves the aforementioned problems. The integration of multiple processing steps creates valuable chemical products outside the scope of general crop oil processing. One example is the purification of aromatic compounds so that they can be converted into raw materials from which polymers can be made. Another example of additional processing steps creating new products from crop oils utilizes an additional chemical reaction in which aromatic compounds are reacted further with other products to produce alkylated aromatic compounds. These alkylated aromatic compounds exhibit properties that are desirable for both aviation gasoline and jet fuel whereas the original aromatic compounds do not. An optional subsequent reaction can be employed to convert some or all of these alkylated aromatic compounds and other aromatic compounds into cycloparaffins which have some unique properties compared to other compounds that make them desirable in aviation gasoline and jet fuel. A heterogeneous mixture of aromatic cycloparaffinic and other compounds can be produced that is suitable as an aromatics rich blendstock that can be used to replace petroleum based aromatics in conventional processes which generate aviation turbine fuels.

 Cyclic organic compounds are chemical compounds containing one or more bonded ring of carbon atoms forming the backbone of the chemical compound. Cyclic organic compounds include aromatic compounds such as benzene and toluene cycloalkanes such as cyclohexane and cyclodecane and cycloparaffins. Aromatics aromatic compounds or aromatic hydrocarbons are hydrocarbons containing planar sets of six carbon atoms that are connected by delocalized electrons in a manner as if they were connected by alternating single and double covalent bonds. Cycloparaffins are alkanes with one or more rings of carbon atoms in the chemical structure of their molecules and generally have a total of 20 or more carbon atoms in the molecule.

Aromatic compounds include but are not limited to benzene toluene o xylene m xylene p xylene ethylbenzene methyl benzene ethyl methyl benzene dimethyl benzene trimethylbenzene propyl benzene methyl propyl benzene tetramethyl benzene cetyl butenyl benzene and methyl propyl benzene. Aromatic compounds also include polyaromatics such as naphthalene methyl naphthalene ethyl naphthalene tetrahydro methyl naphthalene and tetra hydro ethyl naphthalene. Cycloparaffins include but are not limited to cyclopentane butyl cyclopentane cyclohexane methyl cyclohexane ethyl cyclohexane trimethyl cyclohexane ethyl methyl cyclohexane methyl propyl cyclohexane butyl cyclohexane propyl cyclohexane pentyl cyclohexane cyclodecane dimethyl ethyl cyclodecane heptylcyclohexane and octylcyclohexane.

Embodiments of the present invention are directed to the production and purification of products that contain cyclic organic compounds from plant oils biologically generated lipids and animal fats. Specifically the feedstocks are triacylglycerides TAGs long chain fatty acids long chain lipids or similar chemicals. Embodiments of the present invention provide means to produce these valuable and necessary chemicals from feedstocks not currently utilized to produce these chemicals. The chemical modifications based on the use of cracking chemical reactions and separation techniques are designed to produce commercial quality chemical products that can directly replace comparable chemical products generated from other feedstock sources and to produce fuel blendstocks that are advantageous because of their high concentration of cyclic organic compounds containing aromatic compounds and cycloparaffins. Cracking refers to any process that changes the chemical composition of an organic chemical or chemical mixture by cleaving one or more carbon carbon bonds.

Research involved in TAGs and thermal and catalytic cracking either individual TGs or vegetable oils has occurred sporadically in the last few decades. From this work a set of organic reactions has been identified as occurring during the thermal catalytic cracking of TAGs as shown in Table 1.

Depending upon the reaction conditions such as temperature pressure reaction time and the presence or absence of specific catalysts different reaction product mixtures can be generated. Reaction product mixtures known as crackate for three sets of previously documented reaction conditions denoted as routes are summarized in Table 2.

Route 2 shows a set of conditions which results in the formation of a high concentration of aromatic compounds. However this crackate s composition is not useful for commercial applications in this form.

Applicants discovered that when crackate was generated using reaction conditions similar to those of Route 2 in Table 2 and then purified to remove light ends recyclables and tars the resulting middle distillate contained between 5 and 50 cyclic organic compounds. Embodiments of the present invention use thermal or catalytic cracking technologies coupled with separation technologies such as distillation filtration membrane filtration or separation solvent extraction and related technologies to produce high concentrations of cyclic organic compounds from TAGs and other fatty acids. In addition certain products require additional subsequent chemical reactions While cracking and separation techniques are known to those skilled in the art the combination of these technologies has not been used to produce commercial quality cyclic organic compound fuel blendstocks or to produce commercial quality purified aromatic and or cycloparaffinic chemical products having between 5 and 90 cyclic organic compounds. Mixtures of aromatic compounds and cycloparaffin products can be produced wherein at least about 20 30 or 50 of the mixture is an aromatic compound and or a cycloparaffin product.

Applicants further discovered that there is an economic advantage to further processing some or all of the aromatic compounds generated during the process. One of these subsequent processes utilizes reactions with olefins to produce additional specific cycloparaffins. These reactions are coupled with separation technologies such as distillation filtration solvent extraction and related technologies to produce commercial quality cycloparaffinic rich heterogeneous fuel blendstocks or to produce commercial quality purified cycloparaffinic chemical products. Another of these subsequent processes uses reactions with phosgene or other chemicals to produce specific derivative aromatic or cycloparaffin based chemicals. These reactions coupled with separation technologies such as distillation filtration solvent extraction and related technologies are used to produce commercial quality chemical products.

The raw material for the processes presently disclosed can be any TAG representing a group of chemical compounds that can be found in plant oils or biomass such as algae or any medium and or long chain fatty acids that are naturally synthesized and found in biomass such as algae animal fats or modified materials. Biomass refers to any organic non fossil material that is derived from the mass of any biological organism excluding mass that has been transformed by geological processes in substances such as coal or petroleum. Biomass oil refers to any oil derived from a biomass source. The TAGs in plant oils consist of three medium and or long chain fatty naturally synthesized carboxylic acids connected via a glycerol group. These medium and or long chain fatty acids can be purified separated and chemically modified for use as a food source or chemical feedstock or as a potential transportation fuel. Long chain fatty acids refer to fatty acid chains containing at least fifteen carbon atoms. Medium chain fatty acids refer to fatty acid chains containing ten to fourteen carbon atoms.

 Plant oil refers to lipids that are derived from plant sources. Plant oils include but are not limited to cottonseed flaxseed soybean safflower sunflower sesame canola rapeseed jatropha jojoba evening primrose poppy camelina crambe olive coconut palm cotton corn soybean and nuts. Compositions of major commercially available crop oils are listed in Table 3. Typical fatty acids contained in crop oils include saturated and unsaturated fatty acids. Saturated fatty acids do not contain any double bonds between carbon atoms. Unsaturated fatty acids contain two or more carbon atoms having a carbon carbon double bond. Saturated acids include stearic acid palmitic acid myristic acid and lauric acid. Unsaturated acids include linolenic acid linoleic acid oleic acid hexadecanoic acid palmitoleic acid and myristoleic acid.

Thermal and catalytic cracking of medium and or long chain fatty acids coupled with separation and purification technologies are known in the art and can produce a mixture of chemicals suitable for use as a fuel or a fuel blendstock most specifically as components in diesel kerosene aviation turbine and motor gasoline fuels. Thermal cracking refers to a cracking process that involves the addition of energy in the form of thermal energy as measured by an increase in the temperature of the substance being cracked. Catalytic cracking refers to a cracking process that uses a catalyst.

In the cracking process energy is used to break carbon carbon bonds. Each carbon atom ends up with a single electron and free radicals. Any reactions of the free radicals can lead to various products as shown in Table 1. The breaking of large organic molecules into smaller and more useful molecules can be achieved by using high pressures and or high temperatures with a catalyst catalytic cracking or without thermal cracking . It has been shown that medium ten to fourteen carbons and long greater than sixteen carbons chain fatty acids are compatible with cracking processes using either thermal or catalytic cracking. These techniques have been used to modify the chemical composition of crop oils or biodiesel. However they have not been used to produce commercial quality cyclic organic compounds.

The production of aromatic compounds from TAGs and fatty acids using thermal or catalytic cracking has been previously described but the prior art fails to identify a complete series of process steps that takes the aromatic compounds and or cycloparaffins generated during cracking and subsequently produces commercially viable products. Embodiments of the present invention allow a crop oil biologically generated lipid or animal fat oil feedstock to be converted into these important and valuable chemical products. The present invention utilizes separation and chemical reaction technologies coupled with thermal and or catalytic cracking techniques in order to develop crop oil biologically generated lipid or animal fat based chemicals that can replace commercially available chemicals generated from other feedstock sources and to develop heterogeneous cyclic organic compound rich fuel blendstocks.

The products resulting from cracking reaction are dependent upon the cracking conditions and the original composition of raw material feed oil for example and the gaseous environment present in the cracking reactor. The cracking conditions can be varied based on detailed chemical analyses in order to produce an optimal mixture of chemical components. A catalyst can be used in the cracking reactor to 1 improve the yield of desirable products especially aromatic compounds 2 decrease the formation of unwanted products and or 3 increase the efficiency of cracking reaction due to lower pressure temperature or residence time requirements. Suitable catalysts include but are not limited to activated alumina silica alumina aluminum zeolites sulfated metal oxides rare metals such as palladium niobium molybdenum platinum titanium cobalt gold and combinations thereof.

The cracking output crackate is subjected to purification and or processing step depending upon the material generated. The output from the cracking reactor depends upon the specific reactor design employed. Suitable reactor types include batch continuous flow through flow through packed bed and fluidized bed. Material generated in the cracking reactor can generally be classified in one of four general classes residual materials or residue middle distillates light ends and unreacted raw materials . Purification and or processing step can include separating residual materials or residue middle distillates light ends and unreacted raw materials 

Residual material or residue tars includes chemicals produced during cracking reaction that have a higher molecular weight lower volatility or lower heating value than is desirable for middle distillates . Some residue can be separated from middle distillates along with unreacted raw materials and processed along with unreacted raw materials . Other residues typically those of higher molecular weight will be in the form of solid material after cracking reaction . These compounds are typically known as tars. Tars refers to very long chain chemical compounds generated during the cracking reaction. Tars can contain valuable chemical compounds such as boiler fuel or other by products that can be extracted by various processing methods including solvent extraction or distillation. Depending upon the design of the cracking reactor tars may not be amenable to further processing. These tars can be oxidized combusted or otherwise removed from the cracking reactor or cracking catalysts by methods known to those skilled in the art.

Middle distillate components are a mixture of aromatic compounds cycloparaffinic compounds short chain carboxylic acid compounds linear paraffinic compounds olefins and other components generated in the cracking reactor that have desirable properties and include the primary products that the process is designed to generate. Middle distillates refers to chemicals which have properties amenable for inclusion in a gasoline kerosene or diesel type fuel or which have a volatility similar to those paraffins and or olefins which are amenable for inclusion in a gasoline kerosene or diesel type fuel.

 Light ends refers to chemicals which stay in the gaseous phase at conditions of temperature and pressure at which middle distillates are in the liquid phase. Light ends include unreacted vapor phase material that was added to the reactor to manipulate cracking reaction such as hydrogen nitrogen or water vapor in addition to low molecular weight organic chemicals and hydrocarbons generated by cracking reaction . Low molecular weight organic chemicals and hydrocarbons such as methane methanol ethane ethanol n pentane i pentane pentene pentanol n butane i butane butanol butane methyl ester ethyl ester etc. have chemical and physical properties e.g. volatility that are undesirable when present in substantial concentrations in mixtures of aromatic compounds and other middle distillates . Light ends are separated from the other material that exits the cracking reactor by gas liquid phase separation distillation condensation or other processes.

Unreacted raw materials are chemicals that enter the cracking reactor and undergo cracking reaction but are not converted to chemical compounds with carbon chains shorter than C16. Unreacted raw materials are those compounds in the cracking reactor product stream that have a chemical composition that is not amenable as a middle distillate component and can be exposed to cracking reactor conditions and transformed into middle distillate and or light ends and or tars. These compounds may be chemically identical to the originating oil a fatty acid whose length is identical or similar to the fatty acid chains on the original TAG when TAGs are in the feedstock oil or a partially cracked paraffin olefin or carboxylic acid that has too many carbon atoms in the primary carbon chain to be amenable as a middle distillate blend component. These materials have some undesirable chemical and physical properties. Unreacted raw materials are separated from middle distillates by distillation or other separation techniques. Unreacted or uncracked raw materials can be returned to the cracking reactor for additional cracking reactions fed to a second cracking reactor or utilized for some other purpose.

Subsequent purification and or processing step of middle distillates depends upon the products desired for the specific application. Purification and or processing step can include solvent extraction distillation chemical reaction and combinations thereof. Subjecting cyclic organic compounds contained in middle distillates to additional purification and or processing step yields additional middle distillates as well as the desired aromatic compounds or cycloparaffin end products . End products can include aromatic compounds and cycloparaffins for use as fuel blendstocks or commercial grade chemicals. Undesired materials not shown in can be removed during purification and or processing step in addition to additional middle distillates . Undesired materials include solvents used in purification and or processing steps and or and other chemical compounds not desirable in end product .

A series of examples are described to demonstrate ways that the present invention can be utilized. These represent typical examples and are not an exhaustive list of all of the various options and applications for which the present invention can be utilized. Rather the examples represent typical examples of the general classes of applications currently anticipated for the present invention.

One embodiment of the present invention produces an octane enhancer for aviation gasoline and is illustrated in . The octane enhancer can be mixed with a primary fuel stream kerosene biodiesel or fuel blendstock to produce a fuel mixture that can meet the requirements needed for aviation gasoline ASTM International Test Method ASTM D 910 04a . Raw material undergoes cracking reactions and purification and or processing step as described above and illustrated in . The resulting middle distillates contain approximately 50 aromatic compounds by weight.

Middle distillates are subjected to decarboxylation in order to convert fatty acids to alkanes. The hydrogen needed for decarboxylation is recovered directly from light ends obtained during purification and or processing step . Optionally light ends can be reacted with carbon monoxide and or methane not shown before the collection and introduction of hydrogen to facilitate decarboxylation . Decarboxylation yields decarboxylated middle distillates and carbon dioxide . Further enrichment of the targeted cyclic organic compounds can be accomplished by additional processing step of the decarboxylated middle distillates as desired to meet the specifications of end product which includes high octane aviation gasoline blendstock. Processing step can include solvent extraction distillation chemical reaction and combinations thereof.

High octane aviation gasoline blendstock end product has a research octane number of 123. End product can be blended with a fuel to produce a blended fuel with a higher octane rating than the fuel itself. For example blending high octane aviation gasoline blendstock end product having an octane number of 123 and 91 octane gasoline at a ratio of 3 7 yields a 100 octane aviation gasoline. Blending can be accomplished via conventional means.

Cyclic organic compounds such as end product may be blended with a primary fuel stream such that the resulting octane number is at least two octane units higher than that of the primary fuel stream. Suitable primary fuel streams include alkylate gasoline without additives aviation gasoline blendstock finished aviation gasoline product motor gasoline blendstock and finished motor gasoline product. The 100 octane aviation gasoline example described above will have a lead content lower than that of 100LL aviation gasoline. 100LL aviation gasoline normally contains tetra ethyl lead TEL . Maximum lead content for 100LL aviation gasoline is 0.56 grams per liter 2 grams per U.S. gallon . End product can be produced and blended with conventional aviation gasoline to provide a 100 octane aviation gasoline containing significantly lower maximum levels of lead less than about 0.39 grams per liter than 100LL aviation gasoline. End product can also be blended with an aviation gasoline having a lead content higher than the allowable limit to produce a fuel product that conforms to lead content limits by diluting the lead content . Such a fuel product can be produced having a lead content of about 0.5 grams per liter or lower. According to the present invention a heterogeneous mixture of aromatic cycloparaffinic and other compounds can be produced that is suitable as a high octane blendstock that can be used to replace some or all of the TEL currently added to conventional 100 octane aviation gasoline products.

Lab scale experiments were performed to generate crackate rich in cyclic organic compounds required for the process. In these experiments soybean oil was fed to a small cracking reactor and heated over an H ZSM 5 catalyst to a reaction temperature of 400 C. for 80 minutes. The overall goal of these experiments was to produce an aromatic rich octane enhancer for aviation gasoline. The aromatic compounds produced from the cracking reaction were identified and quantified. In the analysis concentrations w w of all individual components were calculated and then summarized by adding them together under various chemical classes linear iso and cyclo alkanes linear and branch alkenes BTEX benzene toluene ethyl benzenes and xylenes other aromatics fatty acids and the total determined fraction . Table 5 illustrates typical crackate compositions of BTEX total aromatics total fatty acids and total determined undetermined fractions of the crackate after cracking reaction . As shown 70 of the crackate produced were aromatic compounds.

One embodiment of the present invention that produces a high aromatics jet fuel blendstock is illustrated in . This cyclic organic compound blendstock can be subsequently blended with synthetic paraffinic kerosene produced from other sources including crop oils or coal to produce a fuel mixture that can meet the requirements needed for JetA ASTM D 1655 09 JP 8 MIL DTL 83133 JP 4 MIL DTL 5624 U or JP 5 MIL DTL 5624U . Raw material undergoes cracking reactions and purification and or processing step as described above and illustrated in . The resulting middle distillates contain approximately 50 aromatic compounds by weight.

Jet fuel has both minimum and maximum specifications for aromatic compounds. In order to make the most commercially valuable jet fuel blendstock middle distillates are subjected to second purification . Second purification produces products that are capable of separation including aromatics and other middle distillates . Some aromatics are converted via alkylation reactions into heavy aromatics . Under certain conditions cracking reaction generates approximately 5 two to four carbon C C olefins which end up in light end fraction . These olefins may be extracted from light ends in purification step and used in alkylation reactions . Alkylation conversion reactions may also utilize an external source of ethylene propylene or butylene not shown with or without olefins extracted from light ends .

Heavy aromatics may be further converted via hydrogenation into cycloparaffins . The hydrogen required for hydrogenation may be recovered from light ends fraction . Optionally light ends may be first reacted with carbon monoxide and or methane not shown before the extraction and introduction of hydrogen to facilitate hydrogenation . One or both hydrogen sources and can be introduced for hydrogenation .

The key reactions in the process depicted in involve the alkylation of various aromatics produced during cracking reaction and purification . To verify these key reactions experimentally the primary aromatics produced during cracking reaction and purification were reacted individually and in blends. Table 6 shows the conversion product identities and selectivities for the following liquid phase alkylations carried out in autoclaves 

Propene was selected as a model alkene for alkylation reactions because it is produced abundantly during cracking reaction and purification and or processing step . Other alkenes such as ethene and butene are also active alkylating agents for aromatics and will likely behave similar to propene. Hydrogen ethylene butylenes and other olefins can generate specific cycloparaffins such as methylcyclohexane ethylcyclohexane propylcyclohexane butylcyclohexane and all combinations of methyl ethyl propyl butyl and pental cyclohexanes such as 1 3 dimethylcyclohexane 1 methyl 2 ethylcyclohexane 1 methyl 2 ethyl cyclohexane 1 3 5 trimethylcyclohexane and 1 3 5 triethylcyclohexane. Aromatic compounds can also be reacted with other chemicals such as hydrogen ethylene propylene and or butylene to generate cumene toluene all xylenes ethylbenzene n and isopropyl benzene n and isobutyl benzene 1 2 dimethylbenzene o xylene 1 methyl 3 ethylbenzene 1 methyl 3 propylbenzene 1 3 diisopropylbenzene 1 methylethyl benzene 1 3 bis 1 methylethyl benzene 1 methyl 2 1 methylethyl benzene 1 methyl 3 1 methylethyl benzene 1 methyl 4 1 methylethyl benzene 2 ethyl 1 3 dimethylbenzene 1 2 4 5 tetramethylbenzene 1 2 dimethyl 3 1 methylethyl benzene 1 2 dimethyl 4 1 methylethyl benzene 1 ethyl 4 1 methylethyl benzene 2 4 dimethyl 1 1 methylethyl benzene 1 3 dimethyl 5 1 methylethyl benzene 1 2 3 4 5 pentamethylbenzene 1 ethyl 2 4 5 trimethylbenzene 1 4 dimethyl 2 1 methylethyl benzene and 1 ethyl 4 1 methylethyl benzene.

Another embodiment of the present invention produces commercial quality benzene. The benzene end product can meet the purity requirements needed for Refined Benzene 545 per ASTM D 4734 04 99.9 benzene by weight per ASTM D 4492 . Raw material undergoes cracking and purification essentially as described above and illustrated in . The resulting middle distillates contain approximately 50 aromatic compounds.

Middle distillates are subjected to purification step . Purification step separates middle distillates from light ends recyclables and tars . Benzene is isolated from middle distillates in second purification step . Second purification step includes extractive distillation and or other purification methods to produce commercial quality benzene as aromatic compounds or cycloparaffin end product . Selected aromatic compounds such as benzene and or toluene can be isolated from the cracked biomass oil and purified to a product that satisfies current relevant commercial grade chemical specifications. These aromatic compounds can be further reacted with other chemicals including but not limited to phosgene to generate valuable chemical intermediates such as methylene diphenyl diisocyanate MDI and or toluene diisocyanate TDI .

Other embodiments of the present invention produce other commercial quality cyclic organic compounds such as toluene cumene isopropylbenzene ethylbenzene o xylene and xylenes for p xylene feedstock. Toluene end product can meet the purity requirements needed for Toluene Diisocyanate TDI Feedstock per ASTM D 5606 01 99.9 toluene by weight per ASTM D 2360 or D 6526 . Cumene end product can meet the purity requirements needed for Cumene per ASTM D 4077 00 99.92 cumene by weight per ASTM D 3760 . Ethylbenzene end product can meet the purity requirements needed for Ethylbenzene per ASTM D 3193 96 99.00 ethylbenzene by weight per ASTM D 5060 . O xylene end product can meet the purity requirements needed for O Xylene per ASTM D 5471 97 98.0 o xylene by weight per ASTM D 3797 . Xylene end products can meet the purity requirements needed for Xylenes for p Xylene Feedstock per ASTM D 5211 01 18 p xylene minimum and 20 ethylbenzene maximum by weight per ASTM D 2306 .

While the invention has been described with reference to exemplary embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiments disclosed but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

