---

title: Airfoil with hybrid drilled and cutback trailing edge
abstract: An apparatus for a gas turbine engine includes an airfoil, a metering opening for metering a cooling fluid, a cutback slot configured to deliver the cooling fluid from the metering opening, and a cooling hole. The airfoil defines a trailing edge, opposite first and second faces, and a mean camber line. The cutback slot is defined along the first face of the airfoil adjacent to the trailing edge and offset from the mean camber line of the airfoil. The cooling hole has an outlet that is located at the trailing edge and substantially aligned with the mean camber line of the airfoil. The cooling hole delivers a portion of the cooling fluid from the metering opening.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09422816&OS=09422816&RS=09422816
owner: United Technologies Corporation
number: 09422816
owner_city: Hartford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090626
---
The present invention was developed at least in part with government funding pursuant to Contract No. N00019 02 C 3003 awarded by the United States Navy. The U.S. Government may have certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates to fluid cooled airfoils and more particularly to fluid cooled airfoils suitable for use with gas turbine engines.

Airfoils such as those used in gas turbine engines often operate in relatively hot environments. In order to help ensure air foil integrity airfoils can utilize high temperature alloys thermal barrier coatings and cooling fluid delivery. However known cooling schemes may be inadequate for some desired applications. Inadequate cooling fluid delivery can lead to spallation of coatings and other wear or damage to the airfoil e.g. crack formation which may necessitate repair or replacement of the airfoil. Such a need for repair or replacement of an airfoil is costly and time consuming. Therefore it is desired to provide for improved fluid cooling for an airfoil particularly at a trailing edge of the airfoil.

An apparatus according to the present invention for use with a gas turbine engine includes an airfoil a metering opening for metering a cooling fluid a cutback slot configured to deliver the cooling fluid from the metering opening and a cooling hole. The airfoil defines a trailing edge opposite first and second faces and a mean camber line. The cutback slot is defined along the first face of the airfoil adjacent to the trailing edge and is offset from the mean camber line of the airfoil. The cooling hole has an outlet that is located at the trailing edge and substantially aligned with the mean camber line of the airfoil. The cooling hole delivers a portion of the cooling fluid from the metering opening.

In general the present invention relates to a fluid cooled airfoil having a film cooling cutback slot located along a pressure face adjacent to the trailing edge and a convective cooling hole extending to the trailing edge. A cooling fluid from a plenum is metered through a metering opening and passes to the cutback slot to provide film cooling. A portion of the cooling fluid delivered to the cutback slot is directed through the cooling hole extending to the trailing edge to provide convective cooling to the airfoil. In that way hybrid film cooling and convective cooling is provided at or near the trailing edge which can help maintain regions of the trailing edge of the airfoil at or below suitable thermal operating limits. In one embodiment an inlet of the hole extending to the trailing edge is located at or downstream from an upstream boundary of the cutback slot along the pressure face of the airfoil and an outlet of the hole extending to the trailing edge is substantially aligned with a mean camber line of the airfoil.

Each of the cooling passages one is shown in includes a metering opening a cutback slot and a trailing edge cooling hole . The metering opening is fluidically connected to the plenum to receive and meter cooling flows. The cutback slot is located downstream from the metering opening and is configured to deliver cooling fluid to the pressure face at an outlet defined between an upstream boundary and a downstream boundary . The downstream boundary of the cutback slot is located adjacent to and slightly upstream from the trailing edge . The cutback slot is generally offset from the mean camber line . Additional details of the cutback slot are discussed below.

The trailing edge cooling hole extends from the cutback slot to the trailing edge between an inlet and an outlet . In the illustrated embodiment the inlet of trailing edge cooling hole is located essentially within the cutback slot that is the inlet is located approximately at or downstream of the upstream boundary of the cutback slot and at or upstream of the downstream boundary . Furthermore in the illustrated embodiment the outlet of the trailing edge cooling hole is substantially aligned with the mean camber line at the trailing edge . The outlet and other portions of the trailing edge cooling hole has a substantially circular cross section in the illustrated embodiment. In alternative embodiments other shapes of the outlet are possible such as an elliptical or racetrack shape with a major axis arranged in the spanwise direction. The outlet has a diameter or width D. In one embodiment the diameter Dof the trailing edge is at least approximately three times larger than the diameter Dof the outlet . Having the diameter Dsignificantly larger than the diameter Dhelps promote structural integrity of the trailing edge .

Although in the illustrated embodiment only a single trailing edge cooling hole extends from each cutback slot in further embodiments multiple trailing edge cooling holes can extend from a given cutback slot . For example multiple trailing edge cooling holes can extend from a given cutback slot at different angles relative to the centerline Cand each have separate inlets . Alternatively multiple trailing edge cooling holes extending from a given cutback slot could share a common inlet .

The second portion B of the cooling fluid flow also provides aerodynamic benefits by helping to straighten fluid flows at or near the trailing edge of the airfoil . Moreover by exhausting the second portion B of the cooling fluid flow at the trailing edge along the mean camber line the relatively high mixing losses typically associated with pressure face and suction face cooling flows are avoided.

While the invention has been described with reference to an exemplary embodiment s it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiment s disclosed but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims. For example the present invention can be utilized in conjunction with any number of additional cooling features such as additional cooling passages of a known configuration. Moreover trailing edge cooling holes can be drilled into existing airfoils with cutback slots as part of a repair or retrofit operation according to the present invention.

