---

title: Method for mitigating spatial aliasing
abstract: The invention as disclosed is a method for mitigating spatial aliasing that takes advantage of the forward motion of towed array elements to overcome the frequency constraints imposed on beam forming by the spatial separation of the array elements. The method employs the motion of a towed array of hydrophones to generate at least one synthetic array element to compensate for spatial under sampling.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08045419&OS=08045419&RS=08045419
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08045419
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20091015
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

The present invention is directed to towed arrays of hydrophones. In particular the present invention is directed to a method for mitigating spatial aliasing that takes advantage of the forward motion of towed array elements hydrophones to overcome the frequency constraints imposed on beam forming by the spatial separation of the array elements.

The Nyquist criterion describes the sampling rate required for a given frequency without aliasing. Similarly if an array of sensors hydrophones is coherently processed to determine the direction of an incoming acoustic signal through beam forming then the separation of the array elements determines the maximum frequency that can be processed without producing an alias in direction. If the beam forming limits are exceeded however spatial aliasing occurs in the form of grating lobes as graphically illustrated that interfere with the interpretation of the direction of the incoming signal. Grating lobes appear at an aliased look direction that is a function of both source direction and frequency so a loud multi tonal signal will produce grating lobes that are present at multiple look directions interfering with the interpretation of the number of signals present. Grating lobes are caused by spatial under sampling. What is needed is a method for mitigating spatial aliasing to avoid grating lobes.

It is a general purpose and object of the present invention to mitigate spatial aliasing to avoid grating lobes from a loud multi tonal source. The above object is accomplished with the present invention through the use of a method that employs the motion of a towed array of hydrophones to generate at least one synthetic array element for each real sensor to compensate for spatial under sampling. Acoustic energy is detected and converted to an electronic signal by a towed array of hydrophones. This signal is processed by a data processing computer system. In the present invention the electronic signal is processed in the data processing computer system such that it is time delayed thereby generating a synthetic element. The time delay is based on the forward motion of the array and the desired separation distance of the synthetic element along the array. The electronic signal is then filtered into frequency bins using a bank of filters such as a fast Fourier transform FFT as is also done for the real sensor data. The frequency components in the medium due to the source of the electronic signal are then estimated after which the neighborhood of frequency bins containing energy from each frequency component are identified. The energy due to each source frequency component is then phase corrected to compensate for the initial time delay that generated the synthetic element. Traditional beam forming is then performed on the signals from both the real array elements and the synthetic array elements to generate a graphical representation of a multi tone signal that will indicate the source direction and look direction associated with an acoustic source that is detected by the towed array of hydrophones.

Referring to there is illustrated a towed array of hydrophones moving underwater in a particular direction as indicated by the arrow at a velocity V. In one embodiment the array is being towed by an underwater vehicle. There is also illustrated an underwater acoustic energy source generating acoustic energy. In one embodiment this energy source could be a surface vessel or an underwater vessel. The hydrophones detect the acoustic energy at a look direction or look angle and convert it to a digital electronic signal. The towed array is connected to a data processing computer system .

Referring to there is illustrated an embodiment of the method for mitigating spatial aliasing in the form of a flow diagram. The first step of the method is for the data processing computer system to receive the digital electronic signal from the towed array of hydrophones .

The second step is to process the electronic signal in order to generate at least one synthetic towed array element for each real sensor wherein the synthetic array element will allow for more sampling. The processing involves time delaying the electronic signal received from the towed array . The time delay is accomplished according to the following formula d 2V. Wherein V is the speed of the motion of the towed array and d is the current separation distance between the physical array elements hydrophones in the towed array as illustrated in . The acoustic signals or samples received by the physical array elements are represented as follows x n sampled from x t . The samples assigned to the synthetic elements as a result of the time delay are

The third step is to filter the electronic signal received from the towed array through a bank of filters into its frequency components. In a preferred embodiment the bank of filters is a fast Fourier transform FFT . This filtering step will provide a number of frequency samples of the electronic signal in the form of frequency bins. Each towed array element is associated with a set of frequency bins.

The fourth step is to estimate the observed frequency due to the frequency of the original source . This frequency will be used to estimate the frequency in the medium based on the Doppler shift of the movement of the towed array in step . Strong tones are detected from the filtered electronic signal by finding peaks in the frequency coefficients X k where k is an FFT bin number from the calculation in step . An interpolation is performed to obtain an estimate of the observed frequency . The result of this step will be the estimates of the observed frequencies of one or more strong tones.

The fifth step is to determine the neighborhood of frequency bins in which there is a significant amount of energy present from the strong tones detected in step . A single tone in the center of an FFT bin will produce a peak amplitude N indicating that all of the energy is concentrated in that bin. If the tone is off center the energy is spread over multiple bins. This spreading is known as leakage and needs to be addressed because the leakage propagates as a function of the phase of the original tone. This assertion is shown through the following calculations If x n are samples of a tone defined as

The sixth step is to phase correct the synthetic element signal associated with each source frequency component for each look direction to compensate for the time delay of the second step . The correction is accomplished through the application of a phase shift 

The seventh step is to perform frequency beam forming using the signal information from both the real array elements and the synthetic elements including the signal amplitude the propagation of the signal to each element of the towed array shading and steering. This is accomplished as follows 

The eighth step is to generate a graphical representation of a multi tone signal that will indicate the source direction and look direction associated with an acoustic source that is detected by the towed array of hydrophones. In one embodiment this graphical representation can be plotted in real time on a graphical user interface that is part of the data processing computer system.

The advantage of the present invention is that it takes advantage of the additional information that already exists in towed array signal data namely the information due to array motion. Calculating synthetic elements within the existing aperture will increase frequency coverage by effectively increasing the array element population with the added benefit of mitigating failed array elements .

While it is apparent that the illustrative embodiments of the invention disclosed herein fulfill the objectives of the present invention it is appreciated that numerous modifications and other embodiments may be devised by those skilled in the art. Additionally feature s and or element s from any embodiment may be used singly or in combination with other embodiment s . Therefore it will be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and embodiments which would come within the spirit and scope of the present invention.

