---

title: Tetraphosphorus ligands for catalytic hydroformylation and related reactions
abstract: Tetraphosphorous ligands are combined with transition metal salts to form catalysts for use in hydroformylation, isomerization-hydroformylation, hydrocarboxylation, hydrocyan-ation, isomerization-formylation, hydroaminomethylation and similar related reactions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07709659&OS=07709659&RS=07709659
owner: The Penn State Research Foundation
number: 07709659
owner_city: University Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090417
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 639 438 filed Dec. 15 2006 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 531 698 which in turn claims the benefit of priority of Provisional Application No. 60 750 733 filed Dec. 15 2005 the entire contents of each of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

This invention was made with government support under Grant No. GM058832 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to new phosphorous ligands and their applications in hydroformylation and related reactions. More particularly the present invention relates to transition metal complexes having chelating tetraphosphorus ligands with multichelating modes. Tetraphosphorus ligands with multichelating modes can enhance coordinating abilities for transition metals such as Rh and Ni and thus enhance selectivities of catalytic reactions. The transition metal tetraphosphorus complexes according to the present invention are useful as catalysts in hydroformylation isomerization hydroformylation hydrocarboxylation hydrocyanation tandem reactions such as isomerization formylation and hydroaminomethylation.

Hydroformylation discovered by Roelen in 1938 has been the largest homogeneous catalytic process in industry. More than 15 billion pounds of aldehydes and alcohols per year have been produced based on Fe Zn Mn Co Cu Ag Ni Pt Pd Rh Ru and Ir based catalysts. In these processes achieving high selectivity to linear products is extremely important for commercial application. Despite the extensive investigation by both academic and industrial groups such as BASF Dow Shell and Eastman among others there still remain fundamental and practical problems regarding selectivity. New concepts for controlling selectivities are very important in catalytic reactions. Highly efficient selective catalysts will allow some bulky chemicals to be produced in an environmentally sound manner under milder conditions.

Cobalt catalysts e.g. HCo CO dominated industrial hydroformylation until rhodium catalysts e.g. HRh CO PPh were introduced in earlier 1970 s. In 2004 it is estimated that approximately 75 of all hydroformylation processes were based on rhodium triarylphosphine catalysts. Achieving high regioselectivity to linear aldehydes is critical for hydroformylation and related reactions. The resulting aldehydes are converted to alcohols carboxylic acids or other derivatives which are used as plasticizers detergents surfactants solvents lubricants and chemical intermediates.

The successful commercialization of HRh CO PPh technology has been based on the key discovery of Pruett at Union Carbide and Booth at Union oil that the use of rhodium with excess phosphine ligand can lead to forming active selective hydroformylation catalysts. The need for excess phosphines is due to the facile Rh PPhdissociation in the catalytic system as illustrated by Scheme 1. Loss of PPhfrom HRh CO PPh results in more active but less regioselective hydroformylation catalysts B and C. In the commercial process up to an 820 fold excess of PPhto Rh is used to assure high linear branch selectivity ratio i.e. up to 17 1 for the hydroformylation of 1 hexene. Commercial hydroformylation of propylene has been run with a 400 fold excess of PPhto Rh with a linear branch selectivity ratio of 8 9 1 being achieved.

Rh PPhcatalyzed hydroformylation is the key for making all oxo alcohols. Propylene is the largest single alkene hydroformylated to produce butylaldehyde which can be hydrogenated to produce butanol or dimerized by an aldol condensation and then hydrogenated to form 2 ethyl 1 hexanol the largest single product produced by hydroformylation over 5 billion lbs a year . 2 ethyl 1 hexanol is usually reacted with phthalic anhydride to produce dialkyl phthalic esters that are used as plasticizers to keep polyvinyl chloride plastics soft and flexible.

In the hydroformylation process it is critical to get cheaper feed stocks for starting materials. For example internal higher alkenes SHOP alkenes such as 3 octenes are desirable for converting the alkenes to linear aldehydes. Direct use of raffinate II a mixture of n butenes butanes and 1 butene and 2 butene mixtures are useful for hydroformylation. For hydroformylation of n alkenes it is important to obtain high linear selectivity. Hydroformylation of allylic alcohol and subsequent reduction can lead to 1 4 butenol. Functionalized internal alkenes can be used as alternative routes to bifunctional building blocks for polymers. Hydroformylation of methyl 3 pentenoate leads to making starting materials for polyamides and polyesters. In the tandem isomerization and hydroformylation processes high isomerization rates combined with high selectivity towards terminal aldehydes are desirable with minimized undesirable hydrogenation reactions and minimum isomerization towards conjugated compounds.

To overcome the need of using large excess of phosphines in the hydroformylation processes and achieve high regioselectivity a new generation of transition metal catalysts were developed using bisphosphine ligands. For example Bisbi by Eastman Chemical Xantphos by Prof. Leeuwen University of Amsterdam Bernhard Breit Acc. Chem. Res. 2003 36 264 275 Bernhard Breit Wolfgang Seiche Synthesis 2001 1 1 36 and UC 44 by Union Carbide. These ligands are illustrated below.

Despite that a number of chiral bisphosphorus ligands being used as catalysts for hydroformylation and related reactions the highly selective active phosphorus ligands for hydroformylation still remain an area of strong research interest. However because of the dissociation of phosphines from the Rh CO coordination is a problem for achieving high regioselectivity that is high linear to branch ratios of the products produced. Developing families of phosphorus ligands with multi chelating coordination modes is attractive. The tetraphosphorous ligands of the present invention because of their coordinating abilities through multi chelating coordination modes lead to highly regioselective transition in metal ligand catalyzed hydroformylation and related reactions to provide high linear to branch ratios than those previously obtained. Also the symmetric nature of these ligands allows these ligands to be prepared easily.

In the present invention we introduce a variety of tetraphosphorus ligands Type A with multi chelating coordination modes as illustrated below to enhance coordination abilities 

The present invention is directed to tetraphosphorous ligands having multi chelating coordination modes to used as catalysts for hydroformylation and related reactions. The transition metal catalysts prepared using the tetraphosphorous ligands of the present invention are highly active and regioselective. The tetraphosphorous ligands of the present invention have the following generic structure 

In a hydroformylation or related reaction the transition metal tetraphosphorous ligand complex is prepared by mixing a transition metal salt with the ligand. The transition metal salt is a salt of a transition metal selected from the group consisting of Fe Zn Mn Co Cu Ag Ni Pt Pd Rh Ru and Ir. Examples of the transition metal salts are FeX Fe OTf Fe OAc Mn OAc Mn OTf MnX Zn OTf Co OAc AgX Ag OTf Ag OTf AgOAc PtCl HPtCl Pd DBA Pd OAc PdCl RCN Pd allyl Cl Pd PR Rh NBD X Rh NBD Cl Rh COD Cl Rh COD X Rh acac CO Rh ethylene acac Rh ethylene Cl RhCl PPh Rh CO Cl RuH CO PPh Ru Ar X Ru Ar X PPh Ru COD COT Ru COD COT X RuX cymen Ru COD RUCl COD Ru COD X RuX PN RuCl CHR PR Ru ArH Cl Ru COD methallyl Ir NBD Cl Ir NBD X Ir COD Cl Ir COD X CuX NCCH Cu OTf Cu OTf Cu Ar X CuX Ni acac NiX Ni allyl X Ni COD MoO acac Ti OiPr VO acac and MeReO wherein each R and R is independently selected from the group consisting of alkyl or aryl Ar is an aryl group group X is a counteranion such as BF ClO OTf SbF CFSO B CH CF Cl Br or I OTf is OSOCF DBA is PhCH CHCOCH CHPh NDB is norbornadiene COD is cyclooctodiene and COT is cyclooctotriene. The mixture is placed in an autoclave that is purged with nitrogen and subsequently charged with CO and H.

All reactions and manipulations in the example set forth below were performed in a nitrogen filled glovebox or using standard Schlenk techniques. THF and toluene were dried and distilled from sodium benzophenone ketyl under nitrogen. Methylene chloride was distilled from CaH. Methanol was distilled from Mg under nitrogen. Column chromatography was performed using EM silica gel 60 230 400 mesh . 1H 13C and P NMR were recorded on Bruker WP 200 AM 300 and AMX 360 spectrometers. Chemical shifts were reported in ppm down field from tetramethylsilane with the solvent resonance as the internal standard. MS spectra were recorded on a KRATOS mass spectrometer MS 9 50 for LR EI and HR EI. GC analysis was carried on Helwett Packard 6890 gas chromatography using chiral capillary columns. HPLC analysis was carried on Waters 600 chromatography.

The following procedure was used to synthesize ligand having the structure L1. To a solution of chlorodipyrrolyphosphine 4.4 mmol 0.87 g in THF 10 mL was added dropwise triethylamine 1 mL and a solution of tetraol 1 mmol 0.218 g in THF 5 mL at room temperature. Tetraol was synthesized according to Lindsten G. Wennerstroem O. Isaksson R. 1987 52 547 54 and chlorodipyrrolyphosphine was prepared according van der Slot S. C. Duran J. Luten J. Kamer P. C. J. van Leeuwen P. W. N. M. 2002 21 3873 3883. Triethylamine.HCl salts were formed immediately after the addition. The reaction mixture was stirred for 6 h at room temperature. The triethylamine.HCl salts were then filtered off and the solvent was removed under vacuum. The crude product was purified by flash chromatography on basic aluminum oxide eluted with hexane EtOAc NEt 6 1 0.01 to produce ligand L1 0.31 g 36 as a air stable colorless solid. H NMR 300 Hz CDCl 7.23 t 2H J 8.3 Hz 6.68 m 20H 6.21 m 16H C NMR 90 Hz CDCl 152.86 d J 12.2 Hz131.0 121.4 d J 16.8 Hz 118.1 115.3 d J 13.7 Hz 112.7 31P NMR 146 Hz CDCl 107.3. HRMS ES calcd. for CHNOP MH 867.2045 found 867.2021.

To a 2 mL vial with a magnetic stirring bar was charged the tetraphosphorus ligand L1 prepared in the previous example 3 mol 2.6 mg and Rh acac CO 1 mol 0.1 mL of 10 mM solution in toluene . The mixture was stirred for 5 min. Then 2 octene 10 mmol 1.56 mL was added followed by decane 0.01 mL as internal standard. The reaction mixture was transferred to an autoclave. The autoclave was purged with nitrogen for three times and subsequently charged with CO 5 bar and H 5 bar . The autoclave was then heated to 100 C. oil bath . After 12 h the autoclave was cooled in icy water and the pressure was carefully released in a well ventilated hood. The reaction mixture was immediately analyzed by GC.

The remarkable regioselectivities using a multi chelating tetraphosphorus ligand L1 for hydroformylation of styrene 1 octene and 1 hexene are demonstrated in Table 1. Normally styrene is a difficult substrate for achieving more than 2 1 ratio of linear to branched products when compared to bisphosphorous ligands of the prior art such as xantphos and UC 44. As shown in Table 1 the new tetraphosphorus ligands Type A such as LI is more selective hydroformylation ligand than the prior art bisphosphorous ligand Type B . The reaction conditions included 0.1 mol Rh CO acac and ligand reaction temperature 80 C. for 1 hour at 20 atm of CO and H. These results indicate that tetraphosphorus ligands with multi chelating coordination can be used to increase coordinating abilities of bisphosphine ligands. The regioselectivity with Type A is the highest reported to date.

Table 3 below shows the results of hydroformylation of 1 hexene and 1 octene using the tetraphosphorus ligand Type A vs bisphosphorus ligand Type B to produce an aldehyde by a hydroformylation reaction.

The hydroformylation reaction is highly dependent on the reaction conditions. Typical reaction conditions are S C 10000 ligand metal ratio of about 3 transition metal concentration of about 0.2 to 0.7 mM reaction temperature is 100 C. and the reaction time is 12 h. To optimize the reaction conditions the following experiments have been carried out with tetraphosphorus ligand L1 . As evidenced by the n i ratios in Tables 2 and 3 there a substantial and significant improvement in the amount of linear aldehyde produced using a tetraphosphorus ligand of the present invention as opposed to using a bisphosphorus ligand.

The hydroformylation was first carried out with different ligand to metal ratios. As shown in Table 4 increasing the ligand metal ratio slightly decreased the reaction rate. On the other hand the ligand to metal ratio significantly affects the regioselectivity. At lower ratios low regioselectivity were observed. A minimum ligand to metal ratio of 2 is essential to achieve high regioselectivity which allows the tetraphosphorus ligand to be coordinated in a multi coordination mode. Further increasing the ligand to metal ratio did not significantly improve the regioselectivity.

The reaction temperature also plays a key role in hydroformylation. As shown in Tables 6 and 7 below at low temperature though high regioselectivity was observed the reaction rate was low. To facilitate the olefin isomerization and hydroformylation high temperature 100 C. is preferred to achieve high reaction rate as well as acceptable regioselectivity.

The CO H2 total pressure also influences the reaction. At high pressure both reaction rate and regioselectivity were low. Lowering the pressure generally results in higher reaction rate and regioselectivity. Decreasing the CO Hpressure from 10 10 atm to 5 5 atm did not change the reaction rate very much but the regioselectivity improved further. The results from the hydroformylation of 2 octene and 2 hexene are shown in Tables 8 and 9.

The reaction time also affects the hydroformylation selectivity. As shown in Tables 10 and 11 below the longer the reaction time the lower the regioselectivity. Further an increase in the reaction time from 12 h to 18 h only slightly improved the turnover number TON i.e. turnover per catalyst at the expense of decreased regioselectivity.

While this invention has been described with reference to several preferred embodiments it is contemplated that various alterations and modifications thereof will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon a reading of the preceding detailed description. It is therefore intended that the following appended claims be interpreted as including all such alterations and modifications as fall within the true spirit and scope of this invention.

