---

title: Multi-axis optical mount
abstract: A mounting mechanism is provided for aligning and securing an optical instrument to a platform. The mechanism includes a housing, a trunnion and a base-plate. The housing receives the optical instrument along a longitudinal axis. The housing includes an attach support for the optical instrument, and an interface having vertically-facing cylindrical-fastener orifices. The trunnion supports the housing at the interface. The trunnion has pluralities of vertical slots and horizontal slots. Each vertical slot overlaps a corresponding vertical orifice. The vertical slots provide elevation displacement to vertically translate and pitch the housing. The horizontal slots provide lateral displacement to horizontally translate and yaw the housing. The base-plate supports the trunnion and is mountable onto the platform. The base-plate has a plurality of horizontally-facing cylindrical-fastener orifices. Each horizontal slot on the trunnion overlaps a corresponding horizontal orifice on the base-plate. Each orifice of the vertically- and horizontally-facing orifices receives a cylindrical-fastener that passes through a counterpart slot of the vertical and horizontal slots. Each cylindrical fastener for each orifice corresponds to a helical screw.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07933080&OS=07933080&RS=07933080
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07933080
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090708
---
The invention described was made in the performance of official duties by one or more employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the invention herein may be manufactured used or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The invention relates generally to devices for securely mounting and aligning precision optical components. In particular such mounts are intended to provide precise alignment in multiple axes for instruments such as a fiber laser collimator.

Optical devices employ mounting mechanisms to provide alignment relative to a platform to be oriented with respect to line of sight. Such devices are designed to adjust for pitch yaw and roll pivoting as well as lateral and vertical translation.

Precision optical systems require mounting and adjusting of multiple components along the optical path to accomplish a given task. Four 4 adjustments commonly required include tip tilt and translation in two 2 axes at either end. These adjustments are typically performed by two separate mounts and actuators one for tip tilt and one for both translations.

Conventional optical mounts yield disadvantages addressed by various exemplary embodiments of the present invention. In particular various exemplary embodiments provide a mount with overlapping orifices on either the base plate or the housing for an optical element and slots on the intervening cradle to receive fasteners that enable horizontal and vertical adjustment.

Various exemplary embodiments provide a mounting mechanism for aligning and securing an optical instrument to a platform. The mechanism includes a housing a trunnion or cradle and a base plate. The housing receives the optical instrument along a longitudinal axis. The housing includes an attach support for the optical instrument and an interface having vertically facing cylindrical fastener orifices.

The trunnion supports the housing at the interface. The trunnion has pluralities of vertical slots and horizontal slots. Each vertical slot overlaps a corresponding vertical orifice. The vertical slots provide elevation displacement to vertically translate the housing. The horizontal slots provide lateral displacement to horizontally translate the housing.

The base plate supports the trunnion and is mountable onto the platform. The base plate has a plurality of horizontally facing cylindrical fastener orifices. Each horizontal slot on the trunnion overlaps a corresponding horizontal orifice on the base plate. Each orifice of the vertically and horizontally facing orifices receives a cylindrical fastener that passes through a counterpart slot of the vertical and horizontal slots. Each cylindrical fastener for each orifice corresponds to a helical screw

The housing and trunnion can include parallel and overlapping ledges to enable jack screws to pass therethrough to inhibit wobble. In various exemplary embodiments the housing is unitary. In alternate embodiments the housing comprises several interfacing components.

In the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments may be utilized and logical mechanical and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.

Conventional actuators can be unwieldably large and do not usually permit the researcher to lock them securely once the desired adjustment has been made being laboratory devices. These devices occupy a much greater volume roughly double for the same number of axes than provided by various exemplary embodiments. Additionally conventional methods typically incorporate active drive in only a single direction of an axis while relying on springs to maintain preload and restrict motion in the opposite direction. This results in a device having stability only in the confines of a laboratory and therefore not being sufficiently rugged to be suitable for field or military use.

First a main housing that mounts the optical component such as a fiber laser collimator shown in the drawings. The housing contains a spherical plastic bearing at one end and multiple setscrews at the other. By driving opposing screws in opposite directions the optical device rotates about the spherical bearing providing tip tilt motion.

Second a trunnion that supports the main housing. This mates with the main housing and base plate and provides vertical translation of the main housing and optical component relative to the trunnion. It incorporates multiple very fine pitch jack screws 80 threads inch and lock screws which drive and subsequently lock vertical motion between the trunnion and main housing.

Third a base plate that supports the trunnion. This provides horizontal translation of the trunnion main housing and optical device relative to the baseplate. It incorporates one very fine pitch jack screw 80 threads inch and lock screws which drive and lock horizontal motion between the base plate and trunnion.

The incorporation of multiple axes of adjustment in a small volume represents a particular advantage of the exemplary embodiments. Conventional means usually require at least two separate devices to accomplish the same task. In particular conventional devices separately employ a first mechanical stage to perform tip tilt adjustment and a second mechanical stage to perform horizontal translation. Each of the two separate devices usually require approximately the volume used in these embodiments to perform both adjustments. Another important advantage and novel capability of these embodiments involves securely locking the device in position after completing the required adjustments.

The housing adjustably clamps the optical element with four 4 tip tilt opposing adjustment lock screws arranged in cruciform pattern at the aft end. In alternative configurations the housing can be adjustable or replaced with a cylindrical container to receive another device with a different geometry than the optical element . The interface and trunnion connect together by three 3 vertical axis jack screws . The trunnion and the base plate attach at their corresponding corners with four 4 horizontal axis lock screws mounted vertically.

Four 4 vertical axis lock screws enable adjustment of tilt alignment between the trunnion and the interface of the housing the four vertical axis lock screws . Two 2 mount screws attach the base plate to the stationary platform not shown . The pair of mount screws connects at fore and aft ends of the base plate to the platform.

A compass rose displays relative orientation axes of the assembly along the longitudinal axis fore and aft horizontal lateral axis port and starboard and vertical lateral axis top and bottom . These orthogonal axes further indicate respective roll pitch and yaw rotation. The optical mount using the lock screws and can adjustably translate the optical element in two of these lateral and vertical directions. The lock screws for this first described embodiment can also incrementally pivot the optical element around these respective axes for limited pitch and yaw adjustment.

Pre load tension applies to bolts and by a spring held in position by an e clip . The spring typically represents a washer with radially concave curvature. The e clip constitutes an open circular flat fastener. To impose the pre load the spring and e clip are disposed for example between the head of the bolt and the ledges . The combined triplet of bolts anchors the interface of the housing without rocking by the ledges and to their counterpart ledges and of the trunnion .

The cradle includes lateral walls a fore ledge and an aft ledge . The base mount includes a front pad a rear pad and lateral brackets adjacent the walls and onto which attach pivotable feet that flank the walls . Screws secure the feet to their respective brackets as well as the forward plate to the fore ledge . Two of the screws flank the extension and a third screw inserts through the orifice .

The groove includes horizontal plane holes to restrict in pitch the aft portion of the lower support to the tang of the upper support . The groove includes vertical plane holes to secure in yaw the aft portion of the lower support to the tang of the upper support . The ledge of the upper support includes horizontal plane holes to secure the camera block thereto. The extension includes a horizontal plane hole to connect the upper support to the lower support . The holes enable yaw adjustment of the upper support in relation to the lower support from the extension as anchor. The mount assembly for this second described embodiment can incrementally pivot the optical element telescope around the longitudinal axis for limited roll adjustment with translation in lateral and vertical directions.

By these exemplary embodiments the optical element can be securely mounted to a stationary platform while enabling adjustment in translation and or rotation in all Cartesian coordinates. These adjustments can be performed by fasteners such as screws and or bolts that pass through a pair of overlapping orifices the outer orifice of which includes dimensions that permit modest movement prior to locking engagement.

While certain features of the embodiments of the invention have been illustrated as described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

