---

title: Developer interface and associated methods for system for querying and consuming web-based data
abstract: A graphical user interface (GUI) for a system for querying web data includes a query entry component defined to receive textual input of a query language (QL) statement. The QL statement identifies one or more QL tables associated with one or more web data sources. The GUI also includes a results data display component defined to visually display results data obtained from execution of the QL statement present in the query entry component. The GUI further includes a QL web service universal resource locator (URL) conveyance component defined to visually and electronically convey a QL web service URL defined to access one or more QL tables identified in the QL statement through the Internet and retrieve direction from the one or more QL tables regarding access and retrieval of data from the one or more web data sources associated with the one or more QL tables.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08621376&OS=08621376&RS=08621376
owner: Yahoo! Inc.
number: 08621376
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20091028
---
This application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 607 804 filed on even date herewith and entitled System for Querying and Consuming Web Based Data and Associated Methods which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

In today s web internet universe there exist thousands of web services and web data sources that provide valuable data. The various web services and web data sources can be defined using many different data types and formats which can be either loosely structured or well structured. For example web data sources may exist in formats such as HTML XML JSON RSS Atom microformat among others. In order for an application developer developer to access and utilize data from a given web service data source the developer is required to have a detailed understanding of the given web service data source implementation such as its particular data types and formats. This can require a developer to spend copious amounts of time learning a particular web service data source implementation which can hinder application development.

Additionally the numerous available web services data sources can exist in isolation relative to the population of web services data sources. This requires the developer to perform separate and multiple processes to access and utilize data from multiple web services data sources. Moreover the developer may only be able to access data from a given web service data source in its entirety which will often require the developer to filter combine tweak and or shape data following its retrieval from a given web service data source.

In view of the foregoing there is a need for improved systems and methods by which a developer can access and utilize data from multiple and diverse web services and web data sources.

In one embodiment a graphical user interface GUI for a system for querying web data is disclosed. The GUI includes a query entry component visually rendered in a display of computer system. The query entry component is defined to receive textual input of a query language QL statement. The QL statement identifies one or more QL tables associated with one or more web data sources. The GUI also includes a results data display component visually rendered in the display. The results data display component is defined to visually display results data obtained from execution of the QL statement present in the query entry component. The GUI further includes a QL web service universal resource locator URL conveyance component visually rendered in the display. The QL web service URL conveyance component is defined to visually and electronically convey a QL web service URL defined to access one or more QL tables identified in the QL statement through the Internet and retrieve direction from the one or more QL tables regarding access and retrieval of data from the one or more web data sources associated with the one or more QL tables as identified in the QL statement.

In another embodiment a method is disclosed for operating a GUI for a system for querying web data. The method includes entering a QL statement in a query entry window of the GUI. The method also includes generating a QL web service URL defined to execute the QL statement. The method further includes executing the QL statement through a QL web service underlying the GUI via the generated QL web service URL. Also results data generated by execution of the QL statement is displayed in a results display window of the GUI. And the QL web service URL defined to execute the QL statement is displayed in a URL display window of the GUI.

Other aspects and advantages of the invention will become more apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings illustrating by way of example the present invention.

In the following description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In other instances well known process operations have not been described in detail in order not to unnecessarily obscure the present invention.

A Query Language QL Web Service is disclosed herein that enables developers and their applications to query filter and combine data from different sources across the Internet. In one embodiment the QL Web Service is referred to as the Yahoo Query Language YQL Web Service. However in other embodiments the QL Web Service can be referred to by other names. It should be understood that the QL Web Service is a web service that is accessible through the Internet via a URL and that can be interfaced with using a well defined language to effect acquisition and consumption of data from one or more web services and or web data sources.

The QL Web Service operates within a system that includes 1 the QL Web Service 2 one or more back end web data sources services and 3 one or more QL tables respectively associated with the one or more back end web data sources services. The back end web data sources services represent entities that exist in the Internet realm that contain data of interest of various types and that are accessible through the Internet via a URL. For ease of discussion the back end web data sources services are referred to hereafter as web data sources. It should be understood however that the term web data source as used herein refers to either data or a service that is accessible through the Internet via a URL.

The QL table is a file which includes information that can be read and understood by the QL Web Service to inform the QL Web Service on how to access and interact with a particular web data source for which the QL table is defined. The QL table serves as a mediator and interpreter between the QL Web Service and the particular web data source for which the QL table is defined. It should be understood that the QL Web Service relies upon the QL table to provide information regarding how to access a web data source what data is available at the web data source and the data format s how to get data from the web data source and how to manipulate data at the web data source. Therefore the QL Web Service itself is not hard coded with knowledge about any particular web data source but rather the QL Web Service is defined to obtain and understand information from a mediating QL table with regard to interfacing and interacting with a particular web data source. Also it should be understood that the data that is obtained by the QL Web Service is actually obtained from the back end web data source and the QL table provides the binding between the QL Web Service and back end data source that enables that data to be obtained.

Each QL table for a given web data source is defined in a format that is understood by the QL Web Service. In one embodiment QL tables are defined in an XML format. However it should be understood that in other embodiments the QL tables can be defined in different formats so long as the QL Web Service is capable of understanding the information contained within the QL tables. The web data sources that are accessed by the QL Web Service can be defined in essentially any format. The binding provided by the QL table between the QL Web Service and a particular web data source informs the QL Web Service as to what type s of data are present within the particular web data source. Using the binding information gleaned from the QL table the QL Web Service knows how to access the data present at the particular web data source in its native format. Once the QL Web Service accesses and retrieves the data from the web data source in its native format the QL Web Service converts the retrieved data into an internal format for processing within the QL Web Service. In one embodiment the internal format is an XML format. However it should be understood that is other embodiments the QL Web Service can be defined to use any one of a number of different internal formats.

Based on user specified controls and parameters the QL Web Service is defined to generate a set of results data from the various data that is retrieved from the one or more back end web data sources. The QL Web Service is defined to convey the set of results data in either of multiple output formats as specified by the user of the QL Web Service. Specifically the QL Web Service is defined to convert the set of results data from the internal format used by the QL Web Service into a user specified output format. In one embodiment the user specified output format is either an XML format or a JSON format. However it should be understood that in other embodiments the QL Web Service can be defined to convey the set of results data in essentially any known output format as selected by the user of the QL Web Service.

Before delving into the more detailed description of the QL Web Service and the language QL it exposes for its use a few features of QL Web Service s utility should be understood and appreciated. It should be understood and appreciated that a user of the QL Web Service does not need to know either the URLs of any web data source to be accessed or the complexities associated with calling the URLs of any web data source. Each QL table that is associated with a particular web data source provides the knowledge to the QL Web Service regarding the URLs of the particular web data source and the complexities associated with calling the URLs of the particular web data source. The QL Web Service in turn abstracts this detailed and complex information regarding the particular web data sources URLs to the user of the QL Web Service. More specifically the QL exposed by the QL Web Service allows the user to specify in a single statement one or more QL tables to be operated upon one or more parameters to be operated upon within the specified QL table s and one or more operations to be performed on the specified parameter s . It should be appreciated that the user does not need to know anything about the URLs that are associated with the web data sources represented by the one or more QL tables. This feature will become more apparent in the description to follow.

Additionally a feature of the QL Web Service to be appreciated throughout the description herein is that the QL Web Service provides for joining of data from different web data sources regardless of ownership of the different web data sources and regardless of how the different web data sources are provisioned and made accessible through the Internet. The web data sources that can be accessed by the QL Web Service by way of appropriately defined QL tables can be owned by any entity can be located anywhere in the world and can include data of any type. Thus the QL Web Service provides for joining web data sources together regardless of their diversity in ownership location and or format to produce a combined set of results data. Although the above mentioned features of the QL Web Service are quite substantial it should be understood that the QL Web Service provides many additional features and services as will be apparent from the following more detailed description of the QL Web Service and its associated query language.

The QL Web Service query language QL includes a number of different statements that can be submitted through an appropriately formatted URL to the QL Web Service to access one or more data sources on the Internet acquire data from the data source transform the acquired data and output the set of results data in a selected format such as XML or JSON format. The QL Web Service can access essentially any type of data source including but not limited to Yahoo Web Services other web services and web content in formats such as HTML XML JSON RSS Atom and microformat among others.

The QL Web Service is accessed through a URL which is defined to include a QL statement for acquiring and or manipulating data at one or more web data sources. In one embodiment the QL Web Service has two URLs wherein one URL allows access to public data and the other URL allows access to both public and private data. For example in one embodiment the following URL allows access to public data which does not require authorization 

Also by way of example the following URL requires authorization e.g. by OAuth and allows access to both public and private data 

It should be understood that the provider of data at a web data source may implement some type of protection on the data such that authorization of some sort is required to access the data. If a web data source is protected the QL table associated with the web data source is defined to specify the type of protection implemented and the requirements for accessing the web data source. For example when the web data source requires OAuth credentials the associated QL table will specify that OAuth credential are required. Then the user of the QL Web Service having seen the QL table description will know that appropriate OAuth credentials must be provided to access the web data source.

As indicated in the QL statements operate on QL tables. As discussed above the QL table is a file which includes information that can be read and understood by the QL Web Service to inform the QL Web Service on how to access and interact with a particular web data source. The web data source for which the QL table is defined often contains very large collections of structured data. The Yahoo QL Web Service includes an extensive list of built in QL tables that cover a wide range of Yahoo Web Services and access to off network data. Additionally the QL Web Service provides for creation and use of QL Open Data Tables to bind any web data source to the QL Web Service thereby enabling access to and consumption of the web data source through the QL Web Service.

As mentioned above some web data sources may implement access protection. A QL table associated with a protected web data source that requires access authorization in some form is referred to as a private QL table. A QL table associated with a non protected web data source that does not require access authorization is referred to as a public QL table. An application can access a public QL table through an endpoint that does not require authentication. For example in one embodiment an application can access a public QL table through the v1 public yql endpoint of the Yahoo QL Web Service which does not require authorization. In another example an application can access a private QL table through the v1 yql endpoint of the Yahoo QL Web Service by supplying appropriate credentials such as OAuth credentials. OAuth is an open standard that allows Yahoo users to share their private resources stored on Yahoo with developers without having to hand out their username and password.

The Yahoo QL Web Service supports two legged and three legged OAuth. The two legged OAuth is an OAuth authorization between two parties 1 an application the Consumer and 2 the public data source the Service Provider . The public data source can be a Web service or Web feeds such as RSS or Atom feeds. A public data source does not require authorization from the end user of the application. The three legged OAuth is an OAuth authorization between three parties 1 the end user User 2 the application the Consumer and 3 the private data source the Service Provider . An application that uses the Yahoo Social Directory APIs for example need authorization by the end user to access private social data.

It should be understood that a QL table referenced herein may be either a private QL table or a public QL table depending on the web data source with which it is associated. However regardless of the whether the QL table is public or private the QL Web Service is defined to utilize the QL table in the same manner such that the QL table serves as a mediator between the QL Web Service and the associated web data source.

The QL statements of can be run in several ways. In one embodiment the QL statements can be run in a Yahoo QL Console which is a QL Web Service user interface that is executable within a web browser. The Yahoo QL Console is described below starting at .

In another embodiment a web application can use an HTTP request such as an HTTP GET request for example when running SELECT statements wherein the QL statement is specified as a query parameter of the QL Web Service URL. In one embodiment a web application can use an HTTP GET PUT or DELETE request for the QL statements INSERT UPDATE and DELETE respectively. One exception is when a JSONP callback is specified in the QL statement. In an example embodiment of this case an HTTP GET request can be used with a callback query parameter specified on the GET URI. In yet another embodiment a web application that uses the PHP SDK can call a query method of the YahooSession class.

The SELECT statement of QL retrieves data from one or more QL tables which reference respective web data sources. The QL Web Service fetches data from a back end web data source transforms the data as directed and outputs the data in a specified format. In one embodiment the specified output format is either XML or JSON format. In this embodiment output data is presented in a tabular arrangement in which table rows are represented as repeating XML elements or JSON objects and table columns are XML sub elements or attributes or JSON name value pairs. It should be understood however that in other embodiments the QL Web Service can be defined to output results in essentially any format.

The what clause contains the data fields to retrieve. The data fields correspond to the XML elements or JSON objects that will be conveyed in the output data returned by the QL Web Service based on execution of the SELECT statement. Therefore the data fields in the what clause represent the columns in the tabular arrangement of output results returned by the QL Web Service. An asterisk in the what clause means all data fields. The table parameter is a QL table either a QL pre defined i.e. built in table or a QL Open Data Table that binds a web data source to the QL Web Service. The filter parameter is a comparison expression that limits the data rows in the output data returned by the SELECT statement. The output data results of the SELECT statement can be piped via the pipe symbol to an optional function such as a sort function. In one embodiment of QL statement keywords such as SELECT and WHERE are case insensitive. However table and field names are case sensitive. In string comparisons the values are case sensitive. String literals are enclosed in quotes. Either double or single quotes are allowed.

The QL Web Service includes a projection feature by which a vertical slice i.e. projection of the web source data referenced in the associated QL table can be queried. Specifically data fields can be specified by name in the what clause following the SELECT keyword. Multiple data fields can be delimited by commas. For example 

will return data from the web data source corresponding to all the data fields in QL table social.updates that has guid me

If the data fields in the result set contain data sub fields the data sub fields can be specified by using periods dots as delimiters. This format is referred to as dot style syntax. For example for the social.profile QL table to get only the imageUrl data sub field of the image data field the following can be specified 

The following lines show part of the output results returned by the QL Web Service in XML format for this SELECT statement. Note that only the imageUrl data subfield is returned.

If one or more non existent data fields is specified in the what clause an HTTP response code is returned such as 200 OK. If none of the data fields in the what clause exist the result set is empty. That is zero rows are returned.

The filter in the WHERE clause determines which rows are returned by the SELECT statement. In other words the filter represents the rows in the tabular arrangement of output results returned by the QL Web Service. The filter in the following statement for example returns rows only if the text field matches the string Barcelona 

In one embodiment the QL has two types of filters remote and local. These filter types are differentiated by where the filtering takes place relative to the QL Web Service. With a remote filter the filtering takes place at the back end web data source called by the QL Web Service. A remote filter has the following syntax 

The input key is a parameter that QL passes to the back end web data source. The literal is a value either a string integer or float . Only the equality operator is allowed in a remote filter. For example in the following statement the input key is photo id 

For this SELECT statement the QL Web Service calls the Flickr Web Service passing photo id as follows 

Most QL tables require the SELECT statement to specify a remote filter which requires an input key. Often the input key is not one of the data fields included in the output results returned by a SELECT statement. To see which input keys are allowed or required the DESC statement can be run for the QL table and the key element of the results can be noted. For example as shown in the following lines the results of DESC flickr.photos.info show that the input key photo id is required 

The QL Web Service also performs local filtering on the data it retrieves from the back end web data source. A local filter has the following syntax 

The field parameter specifies the name of a data field in the output of the QL Web Service e.g. the field parameter corresponds to an XML element or a JSON object in the output data to be conveyed by the QL Web Service. To specify a data sub field the containing data fields are separated with periods. For example the data sub field AverageRating is specified as Rating.AverageRating where the data field Rating includes the data sub field AverageRating. The literal parameter is either a quoted string an integer or a float.

In the following example QL statement the QL Web Service is directed to get data from the flickr.photos.interestingness QL table then apply the local filter title moon 

In the following example QL statement the local filter checks that the value of the title field starts with the string Chinese or CHINESE 

In the following example QL statement the local filter contains a regular expression that checks for the substring blue 

In the following example QL statement the local filter is specified to return recent photos with the IDs specified in the parentheses 

Local and remote filter expressions can be combined with the boolean AND and OR operators. In one embodiment the AND operator has precedence over the OR operator. To change precedence expressions can be enclosed in parentheses. An example QL statement that combines filters is as follows 

In the above example the first two filters are remote expressions because query and location are input keys. The third filter in the above example that contains the data field Rating. AverageRating is a local filter.

Based on the foregoing it should be understood that a remote filter is represented by a key word in an equality expression. The remote filter name i.e. key word is defined in the QL table and may or may not directly correspond to some term known by the back end data source associated with the QL table. However the QL table defines what remote filters can be provided what the key words are for those remote filters and how the remote filters are applied to the URL that gets created to call the back end data source. The remote filter is passed to the back end data source and is applied at the back end data source. The local filter is represented by a data field in a comparison expression. The data field is a field name defined in the QL table. The data field is not known by the back end data source. The data field is used by the QL Web Service to identify data during operation on the data within the QL Web Service and within the output data results conveyed by the QL Web Service.

It is possible to join data from different web data sources by specifying their respective QL tables using a sub select form of the QL statement. As previously mentioned the QL Web Service provides for joining of data from different web data sources regardless of ownership of the different web data sources and regardless of how the different web data sources are provisioned and made accessible through the Internet. The web data sources that can be accessed by the QL Web Service by way of appropriately defined QL tables as specified in a sub select form of the QL statement can be owned by any entity can be located anywhere in the world and can include data of any type. Thus the sub select feature of the QL Web Service provides for joining web data sources together regardless of their diversity in ownership location and or format to produce a combined set of results data.

The sub select provides input for the IN operator of the outer SELECT statement. The values in the outer SELECT statement can be either input keys known the back end web data source remote filters or data fields known to the QL Web Service by way of their definition in the QL table local filters . For example by using a sub select the following QL statement returns the profiles of all of the connections friends of the user currently logged in to Yahoo 

In the example above the QL statement joins the social.profile and social.connection QL tables on the values of the GUIDs. More specifically the inner SELECT which follows the word IN returns the GUIDs for the user s connections. For each of these GUIDs the outer SELECT returns the profile information.

QL tables can also be joined on multiple keys. In the following example the local.search and geo.places tables are joined on two keys 

In the above example the inner SELECT returns two data fields centroid.latitude and centroid.longitude which are compared with the two input keys latitude and longitude of the outer SELECT.

In one embodiment one sub select is allowed in each SELECT. In other words each SELECT statement can only have one IN keyword but the inner SELECT may also have an IN keyword. The following statement is acceptable 

Many QL Web Service queries access back end web data sources that contain thousands or even millions of items. When querying large web data sources applications may need to page through the results data to improve performance and usability. The QL Web Service enables applications to implement paging or to limit output data table size at either a remote level or at a local level. To find out how many items output data rows a query SELECT returns in XML formatted output data results the value of the yahoo count attribute of the query element can be checked in the output data results. Similarly to find out how many items output data rows a query SELECT returns in JSON formatted output data results the value of the count object can be checked in the output data results. In one embodiment the maximum number of items returned by a SELECT is 5000. Also in one embodiment the maximum processing time for a QL statement is 30 seconds. Also in one embodiment for most QL tables the default number of items returned is 10 if a limit is not specified in the SELECT statement. It should be understood however that in other embodiments the maximum number of items returned by a SELECT statement the maximum processing time for a QL statement and the default number of items returned can be set at values different than those stated for the example embodiments above.

A remote limit controls the number of items rows that the QL Web Service retrieves from the back end web data source. To specify a remote limit an offset start position and a number of items is specified in parentheses after the table name. The default offset is 0. For example in the following QL statement the offset is 0 and the number of items is 10 

When QL statement above runs QL calls Yahoo Search BOSS the back end web data source for the search.web QL table and gets the first 10 items that match the query pizza filter.

The following example QL statement gets items 10 through 30 i.e. starting at position 10 it gets 20 items 

If only one number n is provided in the remote limit controls the offset is considered to be 0 and the number of items is considered to be n . Therefore the remote limit control of n is the same as the remote limit control of 0 n . For example the following QL statement gets the first 20 items because the default offset is 0 

The default number of items for a remote limit varies with the QL table. For most QL tables the default number of items is 10. The maximum number of items also varies with the QL table. To get the maximum number of items enter 0 in parentheses after the table name. For example the following QL statement returns 1000 items from the back end web data source associated with the search.web QL table 

A local limit controls the number of output data rows the QL Web Service returns to the calling application. The QL Web Service applies a local limit to the data set that it has already retrieved from the back end web data source. To specify a local limit the LIMIT and OFFSET keywords each followed by an integer can be included after the WHERE clause. The integer value following the LIMIT keyword specifies the number of rows. The integer value following the OFFSET keyword indicates the starting position. The OFFSET keyword is optional. The default offset is 0 which is the first row.

When the above QL statement runs the QL Web Service gets up to 100 items from the back end web data source. On these items the QL Web Service applies the local limit and offset. So the above QL statement returns 15 output data rows to the calling application starting with the first row offset 0 .

The QL Web Service retrieves items from the back end web data source one page at a time until either the local or remote limit has been reached. The page size to be applied to the back end web data source is specified in the associated QL table and can vary between QL tables. The following example QL statement has an unbounded remote limit 0 so the QL Web Service retrieves items from the back end web data source until the local limit of 65 is reached 

The QL Web Service includes built in functions such as sort which are appended to the SELECT statement with the pipe symbol . These functions are applied to the result data set after all other operations specified in the SELECT statement have been performed such as applying filters and limits. The following is an example QL statement that includes an appended function 

In the above QL statement the sub select returns a list of GUIDs and the outer select returns a set of profiles one for each GUID. This set of profiles is piped to the sort function which orders the results according to the value of the nickname field.

Multiple functions can be chained together with the pipe symbol . The following QL statement queries the local.search table for restaurants serving pizza. The results are piped to the sort function then to the reverse function. The final result contains up to 20 rows sorted by rating from high to low 

When QL runs a SELECT statement it accesses a back end web data source typically by calling a web service. Remote filters and limits are implemented by the back end web service. Local processing including local filters and limits is performed by the QL Web Service on the data it fetches from the back end web data source. It should be appreciated that whether an operation is remote or local affects the data returned to the application that calls the SELECT statement. shows a table which identifies whether an element in a QL SELECT statement is processed locally or remotely in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention.

In one embodiment the QL Web Service includes a set of pre defined i.e. built in QL tables that call the Yahoo Social APIs. The social.profile table for example contains information about a Yahoo user and the social.connections table is a list of the user s friends. The Global User Identifier GUID is a string that uniquely identifies a Yahoo user. In this embodiment of the QL Web Service the me keyword is the GUID value of the user currently logged in to Yahoo . For example if a given person is logged in to Yahoo and that given person runs the following statement the QL Web Service will return the given person s profile information 

Because me is a keyword it is not enclosed in quotes. To specify a GUID value the GUID value can be expressed as a string enclosed in quotes such as in the following example 

If a URL for a call to the QL Web Service contains var literals the QL Web Service replaces the literals with the values of query parameters with the same names. For example suppose that the URL for the call to the QL Web Service has the animal query parameter 

The QL Web Service includes the ability to access data at back end web data sources that are formatted as structured data feeds such as RSS and ATOM. However if no such feed is available it is possible to specify the source as HTML and use XPath to extract the relevant portions of the HTML page. For example to get information from Yahoo Finance about Yahoo Inc. stock YHOO the following QL statement may be initially used 

Because the above QL statement returns all of the page s HTML it would not be very useful in an application. By adding an XPath expression to the above QL statement it is possible retrieve specific portions of the HTML page. The XPath expression in the following statement traverses through the nodes in the HTML page to isolate the latest headlines 

In the above example the XPath expression looks first for a div tag with the ID yfi headlines. Next the expression gets the second div tag and looks for an anchor tag a within a list item li of an unordered list ul . The following QL statement also gets information about Yahoo Inc. stock but traverses the nodes to get key statistics 

Instead of the wildcard asterisk as shown above it is possible to specify a particular element for the XPath to process. For example the following statement extracts only the HTML links href tags within the headlines on Yahoo Finance 

To get just the content from an HTML page it is possible to specify the content keyword after the word select. A QL statement with the content keyword processes the HTML in the following order 

1. The QL statement looks for any element named content within the elements found by the XPath expression.

3. If neither an element nor attribute named content is found the QL statement returns the element s textContent.

The following QL statement for example returns the textContent of each anchor a tag retrieved by the XPath expression 

In one embodiment the QL Web Service can return i.e. output data in either XML JSON or JSONP format. However it should be understood that in other embodiments the QL Web Service can be extended to return data in essentially any format. In one embodiment the default format is XML. In this embodiment to get output data in JSON format include the format json parameter in the URL of the QL Web service. For example 

To specify JSONP as the output data format include both the format and callback query parameters in the URL of the QL Web service. The callback parameter indicates the name of the JavaScript callback function. For example 

It should be understood that the format of the output data conveyed by the QL Web Service is not dependent on the data format at the back end web data source. For example if a back end web data source expresses its data in XML format the QL Web Service is not restricted to conveying the data acquired therefrom in XML format. For example in this case the QL Web Service can return output data in JSON format or any other format.

In one embodiment the QL Web Service also provides for returning output data as a JSON envelope having XML content. More specifically if the QL statement specifies a callback callback cbfunction and also requests the format to be in XML format xml then the QL Web Service returns a string representation of the XML within an array. This type of output data format is referred to as JSONP X.

In one embodiment each response from the QL Web Service includes a query element which contains diagnostics and results elements. Repeating elements within results element correspond to rows from a QL table. For example the following QL statement returns multiple connection elements within the results element 

The attributes of the query element and the sub elements of the diagnostics element in the output data generated by execution of a given QL statement can be examined to get information about the execution of the given QL statement. shows a table that lists the attributes of the query element in the XML formatted output data returned by the QL Web Service in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention. In the JSON formatted response data the attributes listed in are mapped to the name value pairs contained in the query object.

The diagnostics element in the output data includes information about the calls the QL Web Service made to the back end web data sources. shows a table that lists the XML formatted sub elements of the diagnostics element in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention. In the JSON formatted output data the sub elements listed in are mapped to name value pairs contained in the diagnostics object.

If the QL Web Service output data is returned in JSON format and the back end web data source is defined in an XML format then the QL Web Service transforms the data from XML format to JSON format. In one embodiment the QL Web Service transforms XML formatted data to JSON formatted data according to the following rules 

The QL Web Service includes an extensive list of built in QL tables for use that cover a wide range of Yahoo Web services and access to off network data. A listing of the built in QL tables can be obtained by running the QL statement SHOW TABLES. A description of any QL table can be obtained by running the QL statement DESC table where table is the name or URL of the QL table to be described.

Additionally the QL Web Service provides for creation and use of QL Open Data Tables thereby enabling the QL Web Service to bind with any web data source through the QL language. A QL Open Data Table definition is an independently defined structured file e.g. XML file that contains at least the following information to enable binding of the associated web data source with the QL Web Service 

The QL Web Service provides the QL USE statement to access external data via QL Open Data Tables. A single QL Open Data Table can be accessed as indicated in the following example QL USE statement 

In the above QL statement USE precedes the location of the QL Open Data Table definition which is then followed by AS and the table name to be associated with the specified QL Open Data Table definition. After the semicolon the QL statement is formed as discussed above with regard to the QL SELECT statement. In the above example the QL Web Service fetches the URL indicated by the USE statement and makes it available as a table named mytable in the current request scope. The statements following use can then select or describe the particular table using the name mytable.

Multiple QL Open Data Tables can be invoked by using multiple USE statements as shown in the following example 

Additionally a QL environment file can be defined to specify use of multiple QL Open Data Tables. The QL environment file provides for use of multiple tables at once without having to specify the USE verb in the QL statements. The QL environment file is a text file that contains a list of USE and SET statements typically ending with a .env suffix. An example QL environment file may appear as follows 

Once the QL environment file is uploaded to the developer s server the developer can simply access the QL Web Service and append the location of the file as follows 

Also multiple QL environment files can be utilized at once by using multiple env query parameters. The multiple QL environment files are loaded in the order they appear in the query string. For example 

The QL Web Service provides for the set up of key values for use within QL Open Data Tables. For example it is possible to set values such as passwords API keys and other required values independently of QL statements and API calls. The following example sets the api key value within the QL statement itself 

The SET keyword allows you to set key values outside of a QL statement including within QL environment files. The SET keyword uses the following syntax within a QL environment file 

In the example above SET is followed by the key api key and its value 1234567890 and the prefix guardian of the table is specified. Once a key value is set within an environment file the key value is removed from the QL statement as follows 

The SET keyword can be used to hide key values or data. More specifically to avoid exposing private data when sharing QL Open Data Tables a combination of QL features can be used to hide such data as follows 

The QL Web Service is defined to support a structured arrangement of elements and sub elements within a QL Open Data Table. In one embodiment the available QL Open Data Table elements and sub elements include the following which are described in detail below 

The table element is the root element for the document. A table is the level at which an end user can select information from QL web data sources. A table can have many different bindings or ways of retrieving the data. In one embodiment a single table provides a single type of data. The following is an example specification of the table element 

In the above example xmlns is an attribute of the table element. shows a listing of attributes available for specification in association with the table element in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention. It should be understood that in other embodiments the table element may have more or less available attributes than those specifically shown in .

The securityLevel attribute of the table element as listed in determines the type of authentication required to establish a connection. In order for a user to connect to the QL Open Data Table the user must be authorized at the level or higher than the level indicated in the securityLevel attribute. shows a table that lists whether access is available depending on the value in the securityLevel attribute.

In addition to the table element the QL Open Data Table is required to include the meta sub element. The following is an example specification of the meta sub element 

In the above example author documentationURL and sampleQuery are attributes of the meta sub element. shows a listing of attributes available for specification in association with the meta sub element in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention. It should be understood that in other embodiments the meta sub element may have more or less available attributes than those specifically shown in .

Situated within each bindings element is one of four keywords select insert update or delete. The select element describes the information needed for the QL Web Service to read data from an API. The insert and update elements describe the information needed to add or modify data from an API respectively. When removing data the delete element is used to describe the necessary bindings.

When a keyword such as select or update is repeated within the bindings array it can be considered to be an alternative way for the QL Web Service to call a remote server to get the same type of structured data. Typically this is used when the service supports different sets of query parameters QL s keys or combinations of optional query parameters.

Unlike XML JSON objects have no root node. To work with the dot notation the QL Web Service creates a pseudo root node for JSON responses called json . If it is necessary to return a sub structure from a QL Open Data Table that fetches or produces JSON json should be added at the root of the path.

In the above example itemPath is an attribute of the bindings select element. shows a listing of attributes available for specification in association with the bindings select element in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention. It should be understood that in other embodiments the bindings select element may have more or less available attributes than those specifically shown in .

The table bindings select urls urls element referred to as the urls element is where the QL Web Service and the QL Open Data Table supporting the back end web data source come together. The url element describes the LTRL that needs to be executed to get data for the particular QL Open Data Table given the keys in the key elements. While generally there is only one URL specified if a particular web data service supports a test select and it is desirable to expose it an additional urls element can be added for that environment.

The CDATA TEXT for the urls element contains the URL itself that utilizes substitution of values at runtime based on the uri template spec. The names of the values will be substituted and formatted according to the uri template spec but one method is to enclose a key name within curly braces . All name keys found in the URL will be replaced by the same id key value in the keys elements. The QL Web Service currently supports both http and https protocols. An example of this is shown as follows 

In the above example the QL Web Service will look for key elements with the names publisher and bucket. If the QL statement developer does not provide those keys in the WHERE clause and they are not optional then the QL Web Service detects the problem and will produce an error. If an optional variable is not provided but is part of the QL Open Data Table definition it will be replaced with an empty string. Otherwise the QL Web Service will substitute the values directly into the URL before executing it.

The table bindings select execute element referred to as the execute element allows for invocation of server side JavaScript in place of a GET request. An example of the execute element is shown as follows 

By way of the execute element it is possible to embed JavaScript and E4X the shortened term for EcmaScript for XML which adds native XML support to JavaScript. When a QL statement calls a QL Open Data Table having a definition that includes the execute element the QL Web Service does not perform the request to the templated URI in the endpoint. Rather the QL Web Service provides a runtime environment in which the JavaScript is executed server side. The JavaScript in turn is required to return data as the output to the original QL statement.

The ability to execute JavaScript via the execute element extends the functionality of QL Open Data Tables in many ways including the following 

In one embodiment there are three types of elements available within the inputs element key value and map. Each key element represents a named key that can be provided in the WHERE or INTO clause of QL SELECT INSERT UPDATE or DELETE statements. The QL Web Service inserts these values into the URL request before it is sent to the server. The QL Web Service inserts these values into the URL request if the paramType is set to query or path or header. For a variable type the key named as the id of the element is made available in the execute section of the QL Open Data Table.

The value element can be used to assign a new value or update an existing value within a QL Open Data Table. The value element defines a field that can only be set as an input and therefore cannot be in QL statements to satisfy the WHERE clause. The value element only works with the INSERT and UPDATE verbs and in different ways.

When used with the insert keyword the value element appears in the VALUE expression of the QL statement indicating that a new value is being passed into the QL statement as seen in the following example 

When used with the update keyword the value element is called from the SET portion of the QL statement. This indicates that you are setting a particular value as seen in the following example 

The map element enables use of dynamic keys. With the map element the QL Web Service uses the value passed in through the QL statement as a variable. This variable is used within the execute portion of the QL Open Data Table to determine what action to take. For example you may set up a QL Open Data Table that updates either bit.ly delicio.us or tinyurl depending on the value specified in the QL statement. For a dynamic key called type the actual ID in a QL query would look like the following 

In the absence of the map element as a binding all identifiers not corresponding to a binding element and that appear in a QL query are treated as local filters. The map element can be used for each of the paramTypes query matrix header path and variable as described in . The following is an example of the map element being used in a path 

For a query containing the relational expression field.type rss only the dynamic parameter name type would be substituted in the urls element. The URI template would look like the following 

In the above example key and value are elements under the inputs element. shows a table indicating which keywords select insert update delete support the key value and map elements in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention. shows a table listing the attributes available within the key value and map elements in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention.

The QL Web Service provides for aliasing within the key value and map elements. For instance if there is an obscurely named id in the QL Open Data Table an alias can be defined and used to refer to it within QL statements. For example perhaps an id called q is present within the QL Open Data Table which actually is a search parameter. The term as can be used to create an alias in the following way 

The table bindings select paging element referred to as the paging element describes how the QL Web Service should page through the web data source results if they span multiple pages or the service supports offset and counts. An example of the paging element is shown as follows 

The paging element includes an attribute model that is used to specify the type of model to use to fetch more than the initial result set from the web data service. The attribute model can be set equal to a literal value of either offset page or url. The offset value refers to services that allow arbitrary index offsets into the result set. The page value is used for services that support distinct pages or some number of results. The url value is used for services that support a URL to access further data e.g. to access the next page of data. When the url paging model is used the pagesize element discussed below may be used to adjust the number of results returns at once if the web data service allows.

The paging element includes the following sub elements pagesize start total and nextpage. The pagesize element provides information about how the number of items per request can be specified. The start element provides information about how the starting item can be specified in the set of results. The total element provides information about the total number of results available per request by default. The nextpage element provides information about the location of the next page of results. The nextpage element is an optional element used in conjunction with the parent url element. shows a table listing the attributes available within the pagesize start total and nextpage elements in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention.

The QL SELECT statement allows for reading of structured data from almost any source on the Web. To perform data manipulation the QL Web Service provides three other keywords INSERT UPDATE DELETE for writing updating and deleting respectively data mapped using a QL Open Data Table. The QL INSERT statement inserts or adds new data to a back end data source associated with a QL table. The QL UPDATE statement updates or modifies existing data at a back end data source associated with a QL table. The QL DELETE statement removes data from a back end data source associated with a QL table. It should be understood that the INSERT UPDATE and DELETE operations are performed on back end data sources and are performed independently from the SELECT operation. The INSERT UPDATE DELETE statements require the proper binding inputs such as key value or map. The actual addition modification or deletion of data is performed within the QL Open Data Table. Most web sources that provide write capability need authentication. Examples of authentication include username password combinations or secret API tokens. If the QL table requires input that is deemed private such as any passwords authentication keys or other secrets the https attribute within the tables element should be set to true.

The INSERT UPDATE DELETE statements rely entirely on appropriate bindings within a QL Open Data Table to be usable. Specifically it is necessary to use an insert update or delete bindings element. These binding elements help to determine what happens with the information you pass in through a QL statement. For Web services that require specific authentication methods or specific types of HTTP requests the QL Web Service provides several JavaScript methods for use within the execute element including 

The INSERT INTO keywords marks the start of an INSERT statement. The table is either a QL built in table or a QL Open Data Table that represents a data source. Following the table name is a list of field names indicating the table columns where the QL Web Service inserts a new row of data. The VALUES clause indicates the data inserted into those columns. String values are enclosed in quotes. In one embodiment of the QL Web Service statement keywords such as SELECT and WHERE are case insensitive. Table and field names are case sensitive. In string comparisons the values are case sensitive. String literals are enclosed in quotes. Either double or single quotes are allowed.

The UPDATE keyword marks the start of an UPDATE statement. This is followed by the table name. The table is either a QL built in table or a QL Open Data Table that represents a data source. The SET clause is the part of the statement in which new data is passed to the update binding in the QL Open Data Table. The WHERE clause indicates which data should be updated. In one embodiment only remote filters can be present in the WHERE clause of an UPDATE statement. The following example shows how the UPDATE statement syntax can look for updates to a user s status on Yahoo Profiles 

In the above example status and guid are all bindings within the inputs element which is nested within an update element. The status is a value element since this is data that is updating a value using the QL Open Data Table. The guid binding is a key element as it is a required key that determines ownership of this status.

The DELETE keyword marks the start of a DELETE statement. The table is either a QL built in table or a QL Open Data Table that represents a data source. This is immediately followed by a remote filter that determines what table rows to remove. The following example deletes a particular Twitter tweet wherein the remote filters are the ID of the tweet followed by the username and password for the owner of the tweet 

The QL Web Service is defined to process the QL statement and perform the operations directed by the QL statement by accessing a URL addressed QL table via the Internet . As discussed above the QL table is a structured file defined to bind a particular web data source service to the QL Web Service . By way of the QL table the QL Web Service is informed as to how the particular web data source service can be accessed and consumed thereby binding the particular web data source service to the QL Web Service .

The QL Web Service platform is defined to execute the QL Web Service . As such the QL Web Service platform is defined to connect via the Internet with any of a number of computing nodes A that contains a QL table addressed by a particular URL. Additionally based on the binding of a web data source service by the QL table the QL Web Service platform is defined to connect via the Internet with any of a number of computing nodes A representing the platform that serves the web data source service associated with the QL table. Through this connection the QL Web Service can access and consume the web data source service associated with the QL table as requested by the QL statement received at the QL Web Service platform from the developer .

A system is disclosed herein for querying web data. The system includes a web data source including data to be queried. The web data source is defined in either an HTML format an XML format a JSON format an RSS format an Atom format or microformat among others. The system also includes a query language QL web service defined to expose a QL for specification of the web data source including data to be queried and one or more operations to be performed on the web data source. Requirements specific to the web data source for accessing and performing operations on the web data source are abstracted through the exposed QL. The QL web service is accessible through a QL web service URL. The QL web service URL is either a public URL enabling access to public web data sources or a private URL enabling access to both public and private web data sources. The system further includes a QL table associated with the web data source. The QL table is accessible through a universal resource locator URL . The QL table includes binding data which binds the web data source to the QL web service. The binding data includes instructions to the QL web service with regard to creating URLs to access and retrieve data from the web data source.

The QL web service is defined to query data within the web data source retrieve data from the web data source based on the query filter the retrieved data and format the retrieved and filtered data. The QL web service is also defined to transform the retrieved data from a format in which it exists at the web data source into a different specified format. In one embodiment the QL web service is defined to convey the retrieved data in a tabular arrangement in either an XML format or a JSON format. The XML format specifies XML elements as rows of the tabular arrangement and specifies XML sub elements or XML attributes as columns of the tabular arrangement. The JSON format specifies JSON objects as rows of the tabular arrangement and specifies JSON name value pairs as columns of the tabular arrangement. The QL web service is also defined to filter the data retrieved from the web data source according to one or more remote filters one or more local filters or a combination thereof. Remote filters are applied to data at the web data source. Local filters are applied to data at the QL web service. Additionally the QL web service is defined to query data within the web data source in accordance with paging specifications.

It should be appreciated that the system for querying web data can include multiple web data sources each including respective data to be queried and multiple QL tables respectively associated with the multiple web data sources. The QL web service is defined to use binding data in the multiple QL tables to simultaneously access and retrieve data from the multiple web data sources that are respectively associated with the multiple QL tables and return the data retrieved from the multiple web data sources in a combined format. The multiple web data sources from which data is retrieved can be defined in accordance with different data formats. The QL web service is defined to join multiple web data sources by providing for use of one or more key identifiers returned in a first set of queried data resulting from a first query of a first web data source as input parameters in a second query of a second web data source. In this manner a second set of queried data resulting from the second query is based on the one or more key identifiers returned in the first set of queried data.

A method is disclosed herein for querying web data. The method includes an operation for generating a query language QL statement defined to identify one or more QL tables respectively associated with one or more web data sources and to specify one or more actions to be performed on the one or more web data sources. The QL statement is formatted in accordance with a QL syntax. The method also includes an operation for embedding the generated QL statement within a universal resource locator URL directed to a QL web service. The URL directed to the QL web service is executed within an Internet browser such that the QL statement embedded in the URL is executed by the QL web service.

The method continues with processing the QL statement through the QL web service whereby the QL web service accesses the one or more QL tables identified in the QL statement through the Internet and retrieves direction from the one or more QL tables regarding access and retrieval of data from the one or more web data sources respectively associated with the one or more QL tables identified in the QL statement. Based on the direction retrieved from the one or more QL tables the QL web service is operated to access the one or more web data sources respectively associated with the one or more QL tables and perform the one or more actions on the one or more web data source as specified in the QL statement. The method further includes an operation for conveying a result of the one or more actions performed on the one or more web data sources by the QL web service to the Internet browser in which the URL directed to the QL web service was executed. The result can be conveyed as textual data in visual form such as within a display of a computer system. Also the result can be conveyed as digital data to be stored and processed by a computer system.

Another method is disclosed herein for binding web data to a web data query system. The method includes an operation for creating a structured file that includes information to bind a web data source to the system for querying web data. In one embodiment the structured file is defined in an XML format. The information in the structured file includes authentication and security specifications indicating a type of authentication required for the web data query system to access the web data source and indicating whether or not the web data query system is required to access the web data source over a secure connection. The information in the structured file also includes instructions for how the web data query system should create universal resource locators URLs that access data available from the web data source. The method also includes an operation for associating a URL with the structured file to enable access of the structured file through the Internet. The method further includes an operation for storing the structured file on a computer readable storage medium such that the structured file is accessible through the Internet by way of the URL associated with the structured file.

In the above method the instructions for how the web data query system should create URLs that access data available from the web data source includes a web data source URL and specification of query parameters that are available to access particular data within the web data source. Additionally the information included within the XML file includes pagination options specifying how the web data query system should traverse through the data available from the web data source. Also the information included within the XML file further includes a sample query that is executable by the web data query system to demonstrate how data can be retrieved from the web data source.

The QL Web Service provides a graphical user interface GUI referred to herein as the QL GUI that serves as a developer s workbench for creating and testing QL statements for execution through the QL Web Service. The QL GUI provides for entry of QL statements testing of entered QL statements viewing copying of results returned from execution of entered QL statements and viewing copying of the QL Web Service URL associated with entered QL statements. Additionally the QL GUI provides organized and navigatable access to available web data sources by providing a listing of available built in and open QL tables along with the ability to view the QL tables and their associated descriptions. Also the QL GUI provides a convenient listing of recent queries that can be re instantiated in the QL GUI through a single click on their respective links. And the QL GUI provides a convenient listing of example queries that can also be instantiated in the QL GUI through a single click thereby enabling a developer to examine the query syntax the corresponding QL Web System URL and returned results data.

Additionally it should be understood that the various text entry and display windows in the QL GUI can be resized and scrolled. In one embodiment a given text entry display window in the QL GUI can be resized by dragging an edge of the given text entry display window to a new position through use of a pointer icon that is controlled by way of an input device such as a mouse. In one embodiment text entry display windows neighboring a given text entry display window will automatically adjust their position and or resize to accommodate the resizing of the given text entry display window. Additionally each of the text entry display windows in the QL GUI can be equipped with a scrolling control such as scroll bar and or page up down buttons to enable navigation through textual content that is larger than the current size of the text entry display window.

As shown in the QL GUI includes a query entry window in which QL statements can be entered manually or displayed from a stored query upon its selection. The QL statement syntax and content as described herein can be entered in the query entry window . An execution control labeled Test is provided to prompt execution of the QL statement present in the query entry window . Upon activation of the execution control the QL Web Service operates to execute the QL statement present in the query entry window .

The QL GUI also includes a results display window in which the data results generated by execution of the QL statement present in the query entry window are displayed. In one embodiment the QL GUI is defined to display data results in either XML format or JSON format. The QL GUI provides an XML selection control which upon activation will cause the returned data results to be displayed in the results display window in XML format. The QL GUI provides a JSON selection control which upon activation will cause the returned data results to be displayed in the results display window in JSON format.

In one embodiment when the JSON selection control is activated the JSON formatted data results can be displayed in either a formatted view or a tree view. When the JSON control is activated the QL GUI displays a formatted view control and a tree view control which upon activation cause the JSON formatted results to be displayed in the result display window in the formatted view and tree view respectively. Also when the JSON control is activated the QL GUI displays a callback entry window and corresponding callback wrapping control . A callback function name can be entered in the callback entry window . Upon activation of the callback wrapping control the JSON formatted results data is wrapped in a function format wherein a name of the function is specified as the callback name entered in the callback entry window . If the callback wrapping control is activated with the callback entry window empty the JSON formatted results data will be displayed without a function wrapper.

The QL GUI further includes a URL display window in which a URL is displayed that will execute the QL statement present in the query entry window through the QL Web Service. The QL Web Service is defined to generate the URL displayed in the URL display window . The QL GUI also includes a URL copy control which upon activation will cause the URL currently displayed in the URL display window to be saved to a copy buffer. Thus once a developer is satisfied with the results displayed in the result display window as generated by execution of a QL statement present in the query entry window the developer can activate the URL copy control to copy the correspond QL Web System URL and subsequently paste the corresponding QL Web System URL in the developer s application.

In one embodiment the QL GUI includes a side bar display including a recent queries window an example queries window and an available data sources window . The recent queries window displays a listing of recent queries. Upon activation i.e. click on of a recent query present in the recent queries window the activated recent query is re instantiated within the query entry window . In one embodiment each query that is entered in the query entry window and is executed by way of the execution control is displayed in the recent queries window . In one embodiment the most recently executed query is added to the top of the listing of recent queries in the recent query window .

The example queries window displays a listing of example queries that demonstrate the utility of the QL Web Service and QL GUI. Upon activation i.e. click on of an example query present in the example queries window the activated example query is instantiated within the query entry window . Then upon activation of the execution control the example query is run with the resulting data displayed in the results display window and the corresponding QL Web Service URL displayed in the URL display window .

The available data sources window displays a listing of QL tables both built in and QL Open Data Tables that are currently known to the QL Web Service. The available data sources are displayed by category e.g. Yahoo Social Web flickr etc. with QL tables within each category being separately scrollable. Also each category is collapsible through activation of a control such as the down arrow shown in the category headings of . Also a number of QL tables present in each category can be displayed in parentheses in the category heading. Each QL table listed in the available data sources window has a corresponding description control desc displayed. Activation of a given description control will cause execution of a QL statement DESC TableName wherein TableName is the name of the QL table corresponding to the activated description control and wherein execution of the DESC statement causes a description of the QL table to be returned as the results data.

In one embodiment the QL GUI provides a permalink control e.g. permalink button. The permalink control enables a developer to get a URL link permalink URL that can be shared with other developers and that contains the query being tested. The permalink URL can be transmitted by email instant messenger or essentially any other Internet communication means. When the recipient of the permalink URL clicks on the permalink URL the recipient s QL GUI is loaded with the same query that is present in the permalink URL. In one embodiment the query loaded from the permalink URL auto runs upon loading into the QL GUI. In another embodiment the recipient of the permalink URL must activate the execution control to execute the query that has been loaded into the QL GUI from the permalink URL.

If the query is found to be acceptable in the decision operation the method proceeds with a decision operation to determine whether a specified results data format is acceptable. If the decision operation finds that the developer desires use of an alternate results data format the method proceeds with an operation in which the developer selects the alternate results data format. From the operation the method reverts back to operation to re execute the query using the newly selected results data format. If the decision operation finds that the developer is satisfied with the currently selected results data format the method proceeds with an operation in which developer gets i.e. copies the resulting QL Web Service URL for use in the developer s application. For instance operation can be performed by the developer by activating the copy control to copy to the resulting QL Web Service URL displayed in the URL display window to a buffer for subsequent pasting into the developer s application.

Also as discussed above a callback function name can be entered in the callback entry window . shows the QL GUI of with a function name myNewCallback entered in the callback entry window following activation of the callback wrapping control in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention. As shown in the results display window the JSON formatted results data is wrapped in a function called myNewCallback. 

It should be understood that the particular visual format of the QL GUI as described herein is one of many embodiments that can be defined to visually convey the content of the QL GUI. Therefore it should be understood that in one embodiment the QL GUI is defined on a component level to include the following 

Additionally in some embodiments the QL GUI can be defined to include one or more of number of convenient tools for developer use such as the recent queries window the example queries window and the available data sources window . It should be understood that although the above mentioned developer conveniences are displayed in a sidebar in the QL GUI of other embodiments may display any of the developer conveniences in another location within the QL GUI or within one or more separate windows outside of the QL GUI.

Embodiments of the present invention may be practiced with various computer system configurations including hand held devices microprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. The invention can also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a wire based or wireless network.

With the above embodiments in mind it should be understood that the invention can employ various computer implemented operations involving data stored in computer systems. These operations are those requiring physical manipulation of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated.

Any of the operations described herein that form part of the invention are useful machine operations. The invention also relates to a device or an apparatus for performing these operations. The apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purpose such as a special purpose computer. When defined as a special purpose computer the computer can also perform other processing program execution or routines that are not part of the special purpose while still being capable of operating for the special purpose. Alternatively the operations may be processed by a general purpose computer selectively activated or configured by one or more computer programs stored in the computer memory cache or obtained over a network. When data is obtained over a network the data may be processed by other computers on the network e.g. a cloud of computing resources.

The embodiments of the present invention can also be defined as a machine that transforms data from one state to another state. The data may represent an article that can be represented as an electronic signal and electronically manipulate data. The transformed data can in some cases be visually depicted on a display representing the physical object that results from the transformation of data. The transformed data can be saved to storage generally or in particular formats that enable the construction or depiction of a physical and tangible object. In some embodiments the manipulation can be performed by a processor. In such an example the processor thus transforms the data from one thing to another. Still further the methods can be processed by one or more machines or processors that can be connected over a network. Each machine can transform data from one state or thing to another and can also process data save data to storage transmit data over a network display the result or communicate the result to another machine.

The invention can also be embodied as computer readable code on a computer readable medium. The computer readable medium may be any data storage device that can store data which can thereafter be read by a computer system. Examples of the computer readable medium include hard drives network attached storage NAS read only memory random access memory FLASH based memory CD ROMs CD Rs CD RWs DVDs magnetic tapes and other optical and non optical data storage devices. The computer readable medium can also be distributed over a network coupled computer systems so that the computer readable code may be stored and executed in a distributed fashion.

Although the method operations of various embodiments disclosed herein were described in a specific order it should be understood that other housekeeping operations may be performed in between operations or operations may be adjusted so that they occur at slightly different times or may be distributed in a system which allows the occurrence of the processing operations at various intervals associated with the processing as long as the processing of the overall operations are performed in the desired way.

Although the foregoing invention has been described in some detail for purposes of clarity of understanding it will be apparent that certain changes and modifications can be practiced within the scope of the appended claims. Accordingly the present embodiments are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the invention is not to be limited to the details given herein but may be modified within the scope and equivalents of the appended claims.

