---

title: Method and system for determining relevance of terms in text documents
abstract: The present invention provides a corpus-independent method for determining relevancy of terms to content of text appearing in a document by analyzing the document itself. Conventional information extraction, or other methods, may be applied to a document to generate a list of terms. The invention analyzes the document using relevancy scoring algorithms to determine a term relevancy score representing the term's relevance to the text contained in the document. The scores, including an aggregate score, may be normalized in the process. Based on relevancy scoring, terms are then ranked and further processed. In this manner relevancy is determined based on the subject document itself and by analyzing the occurrences and locations of the terms within the document. Additional techniques may be applied to relate the relevancy scores generated by the present invention to a corpus or collection of documents.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08321398&OS=08321398&RS=08321398
owner: Thomson Reuters (Markets) LLC
number: 08321398
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090701
---
The invention relates generally to natural language processing information extraction information retrieval and to text mining and more particularly to determining relevancy of terms within documents. More specifically the invention relates to statistical weighting of terms within a single document to determine how relevant or important the term is to that document and in particular to the content of that document.

Much of the world s information or data is in the form of text and the majority of that is unstructured without metadata text. Much of this textual data is available in digital form either originally created in this form or somehow converted to digital by means of OCR optical character recognition for example . This text is being stored and made available via the Internet or other networks. All of these advances have made it possible to investigate retrieve extract and categorize information contained in vast repositories of documents files or other text containers. This proliferation of documents available in electronic form and techniques resulted in a need for tools that facilitate wading through the ever increasing expanse of documents. One such tool is information extraction software that typically involves applying a text analysis process to electronic documents written in a natural language and populating a database with information extracted from such documents. Applied against a given a textual document the process of information extraction IE is used to identify entities of predefined types appearing within the text and listing them. IE may also be applied to extract other words or terms or strings of words or phrases.

 Term refers to single words or strings of highly related or linked words or noun phrases e.g. New York Stock Exchange free market President Bush or health program. Term extraction or term recognition or term mining is a type of IE process used to identify or find and extract relevant terms from a given document that appear in and therefore have some relevance to the content of the document. Techniques employed in term extraction may include linguistic or grammar based techniques natural language or pattern recognition tagging or structuring data visualizing and predictive formula. For example all names of companies mentioned in the text of a document can be identified extracted and listed. Similarly names of people products countries organizations geographic locations etc. are additional examples of entity type terms that are identified and included on a list. This IE process may be referred to as named entity extraction or named entity recognition. There are a variety of methods available for automatic named entity extraction including linguistic or semantic processors to identify based on known terms or applied syntax likely noun phrases. Filtering may be applied to discern true entities from unlikely entities. The output of the IE process is a list of the entities of each type and may include pointers to all occurrences or locations of each entity in the text. The IE process does not rank the entities. Thus suppose a document on the merger of AOL and Time Warner happens to also mention Sony. Applying IE to this document all three companies AOL Time Warner and Sony would be listed identically even though Sony is clearly less central or relevant to this text. Often the terms are then compared against a collection of documents or corpus to determine relevancy of the term to the document.

These tools allow businesses to discover relevant information buried in massive volumes of text based materials e.g. documents emails letters articles and books thereby making it possible for businesses or users of such tools to identify and group relevant information and to make knowledge based decisions. Tools that extract information that may not otherwise be discernible benefit many entities. Such entities include media and other content based concerns information technology delivery concerns professional services and resource providers searching concerns and in particular by researchers professionals executives marketing analysts campaign strategists and others involved with such concerns. For example a news service can use intelligent agents to monitor feeds and to automatically perform IE functions on the processed information. Predefined search terms or schema may be applied on such information to rapidly identify and deliver new items or articles of interest that satisfy some search or other user defined criteria.

Examples of Information Extraction software include OpenCalais from Thomson Reuters AlchemyAPI CRF LingPipe TermExtractor TermFinder and TextRunner. IE may be a separate process or a component or part of a larger process or application such as business intelligence software. For instance IBM has a business intelligence solution Intelligent Miner For Text that includes an information extraction function which extracts terms from unstructured text. Additional features include clustering summarization and categorization. These features analyze for example data accessible online or stored in traditional files relational databases flat files and data warehouses or marts. Functions may include statistical analysis and mining techniques such as factor analysis linear regression principal component analysis univariate curve fitting univariate statistics bivariate statistics and logistic regression.

One rudimentary method of determining relevancy within a single document is simple count score i.e. the number of times a term appears in a document. This is of limited value. What is needed is a more sophisticated way to determine relevancy or importance of terms within a document based on the content of the document itself and to apply a more effective way to assign a degree of importance or relevancy of individual terms to the document.

Search engines retrieve documents in response to search terms. To this end search engines may compare the frequency of terms that appear in one document against the frequency of those terms as they appear in other documents within the collection or corpus. This aids the search engine in determining respective importance of the different terms within the document and thus determining the best matching documents to the given query. One method for comparing terms appearing in a document against a collection of documents is called Term Frequency Inverse Document Frequency TFIDF . In this method a percentage of term count as compared to all terms within a subject document is assigned as a numerator and that is divided by the logarithm of the percentage of documents in which that term appears in a corpus as the denominator . More specifically TFIDF assigns a weight as a statistical measure used to evaluate the importance of a word to a document in a collection of documents or corpus. The relative importance of the word increases proportionally to the number of times or frequency such word appears in the document. The importance is offset or compared against the frequency of that word appearing in documents comprising the corpus. TFIDF is expressed as the log N n q where q is the query term N is the number of documents in the collection and N q is the number of documents containing q. TFIDF and variations of this weighting scheme are typically used by search engines such as Google as a way to score and rank a document s relevance given a user query. Generally for each term included in a user query the document may be ranked in relevance based on summing the scores associated with each term. The documents responsive to the user query may be ranked and presented to the user based on relevancy as well as other determining factors.

After traditional IE is performed on a document the output is simply a list of terms e.g. entities and perhaps locations i.e. where terms appear in the document. IE can also identify more complex things in a document. ClearForest a Thomson Reuters company that is one exemplary IE based solution provider offers text analytics software used to tag or categorize unstructured information and to extract facts about people organizations places or other details from news articles Web pages and other documents. ClearForest s Calais is a web service that includes the ability to extract entities such as company person or industry term along with some basic facts and events. OpenCalais is an open source community to foster development around the Calais web service. APIs Application Programming Interface are provided around an open rule development platform to foster development of extraction modules. Other providers include Autonomy Corp. Nstein and Inxight.

The present invention analyzes the content of a single document and automatically assigns a relevance score to one or more entities appearing in the document. Unlike corpus based relevance scores e.g. TFIDF see http en.wikipedia.org wiki Tf idf used by search engines for ranking the words and terms of a document the inventive method is corpus independent. TFIDF and other collection based methods are difficult to use on vague collections such as webpages and blogs. One problem associated with collection based scoring is in choosing the correct background for comparing a specific document against the collection. In these methods how one defines the reference collection is critical and may be difficult. The invention can give a score within the subject document e.g. webpage or blog. The structure of the document is more critical to the invention to determine relevancy than comparing the document against a collection of documents as previously used. The invention in contrast to TFIDF and other prior methods for associating relevancy of terms to a document focuses on the document itself without comparing it against a collection or corpus. The inventive relevancy scoring techniques may be used to generate one or more intermediate relevancy score or scores which may then be supplemented using other techniques such as TFIDF corpus based analysis or other techniques to arrive at an aggregate relevancy score and or ranking.

A rudimentary method of determining relevancy within a single document is simple count score i.e. the number of times a term appears in a document. This is of limited value. What is needed is a more sophisticated way to determine relevancy or importance of terms within a document based on the content of the document itself and to apply a more effective way to assign a degree of importance or relevancy of individual terms to the document.

Traditional IE based solutions do not assess relevance or about ness of the document i.e. what the document article is about. The invention for example after IE is performed assesses the about ness of the entities in the IE developed list to the document based on the document itself. In one manner the inventive relevancy scoring process could be applied based on a manually prepared entity list. In general the list may be generated by hand or delivered separately from external IE source but still need document to accomplish scoring to determine how much the document is about the entity.

The invention provides post IE scoring of relevancy of terms where terms may include entities such as persons companies countries organizations movies named things things that lists may be compiled from. Concepts like golf could be a term that is the subject of the invention. Typically terms are not subjects of what the document is about e.g. politics especially those not mentioned in the document. The invention is preferably applied to things over topics but the invention could be used to score relevancy of terms that represent topics or non entity subjects.

The invention is a method for scoring and ranking the entities identified by an IE process or otherwise by their relevance or centrality to the text at hand. One exemplary implementation of the invention is a method that assigns a score between 0 and 1 to each entity where 1 denotes maximum relevancy and 0 minimal relevancy. The scores are assigned to each entity in each document but are comparable across documents.

In a first embodiment the invention provides a computer implemented method comprising receiving a list comprising an entity the entity having been identified as being associated with an electronic document based solely upon a set of characteristics of the document determining a relevancy score associated with the entity with respect to the document and storing the relevancy score. In addition the set of characteristics may include at least one characteristic from the group consisting of a first number representing a number of times the entity is mentioned in the document a second number representing a number of sentences occurring in the document prior to a first sentence in which the entity is named a third number representing a number of sentences between the first and last occurrences of the entity within the document and a fourth number representing the uniformity with which the entity occurs within the document. Also the list may comprise a second entity associated with the document and the method may include the steps of based solely upon the set of characteristics determining a second relevancy score associated with the second entity with respect to the document storing the second relevancy score and generating a ranking based upon a comparison of the first relevancy score and the second relevancy score. Also the method may include the step of tagging the document based at least in part on the ranking of the assigned score. The set of characteristics may include at least one characteristic from the group consisting of a first number representing a number of times the entity is mentioned in the document a second number representing the proximity of the first occurrence of the entity to the beginning of the document a third number representing the proximity of the first occurrence of the entity to the last occurrence of the entity within the document and a fourth number representing the overall changes in the rate of occurrences of the entity throughout the document. The method may include the step of applying a Gaussian function to normalize the relevancy score and the step of determining whether the relevancy score meets a threshold prior to normalizing the relevancy score. Also the list may be generated by performing information extraction. The step of determining may include using two or more relevancy algorithms to determine one or more of the following scores occurrence count score intro proximity score first and last occurrence range score and gap deviation score.

In a second embodiment the invention provides a computer implemented method comprising the steps of receiving terms extracted from a first electronic document scoring the extracted terms using two or more term relevancy algorithms based solely upon the first electronic document aggregating for each of the extracted terms the scores generated by the two or more term relevancy algorithms to produce a term aggregate score for each of the extracted terms and ranking each of the extracted terms based on the term aggregate score assigned to the extracted terms to determine a relevance ranking of the extracted terms to the first electronic document. The two or more relevancy algorithms may be from the group consisting of determining a first number representing a number of times the term is mentioned in the document determining a second number representing the proximity of the first occurrence of the term to the beginning of the document determining a third number representing the proximity of the first occurrence of the term to the last occurrence of the term within the document and determining a fourth number representing the overall changes in the rate of occurrences of the term throughout the document.

In yet a third embodiment the invention provides an article comprising a machine readable medium the medium having stored thereon instructions to be executed by a machine to perform operations. The article comprises instructions for receiving a list comprising a term the term having been identified as being associated with an electronic document based solely upon a set of characteristics of the document determining and assigning a relevancy score to the term with respect to the document and storing the relevancy score. The set of characteristics includes at least one characteristic from the group consisting of a first number representing a number of times the term is mentioned in the document a second number representing a number of sentences occurring in the document prior to a first sentence in which the term appears a third number representing a number of sentences between the first and last occurrences of the term within the document and a fourth number representing the uniformity with which the term occurs within the document. The list may comprise a second term associated with the document the article further comprising instructions adapted to perform the following operations based solely upon the set of characteristics determining and assigning a second relevancy score associated with the second term with respect to the document storing the second relevancy score and generating a ranking based upon a comparison of the first relevancy score and the second relevancy score. The instructions for determining and assigning a relevancy score may comprise two or more relevancy algorithms that are used to determine one or more of the following scores occurrence count score intro proximity score first and last occurrence range score and gap deviation score.

In yet a fourth embodiment the invention provides a computer based system comprising memory and a processor for executing instructions to perform operations. The system comprises an input adapted to receive a list comprising a term the term having been identified as being associated with an electronic document a relevancy scoring module adapted to determine a relevancy score associated with the term with respect to the document the relevancy score being based solely upon a set of characteristics of the document and a memory for storing the relevancy score. The list may comprise a second term associated with the document and the relevancy scoring module may be further adapted to determine a second relevancy score associated with the second term with respect to the document. The second relevancy score may be based solely upon the set of characteristics of the document and may be stored in memory. The relevancy scoring module may further comprise instructions for generating a ranking based upon a comparison of the first relevancy score and the second relevancy score. The relevancy scoring module may comprise instructions associated with two or more relevancy algorithms executed by the processor to determine one or more of the following scores occurrence count score intro proximity score first and last occurrence range score and gap deviation score.

The present invention will now be described in more detail with reference to exemplary embodiments as shown in the accompanying drawings. While the present invention is described herein with reference to the exemplary embodiments it should be understood that the present invention is not limited to such exemplary embodiments. Those possessing ordinary skill in the art and having access to the teachings herein will recognize additional implementations modifications and embodiments as well as other applications for use of the invention which are fully contemplated herein as within the scope of the present invention as disclosed and claimed herein and with respect to which the present invention could be of significant utility.

With reference to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention is illustrated in conjunction with a system for analyzing documents that includes a local document processing system an accessible document or knowledge database and a remote document or search processing system . Aspects of the system may be enabled using any combination of Internet or World Wide WEB based desktop based or application WEB enabled. The local document processing system includes a controller or processor such as a PC computer or the like that may comprise a typical combination of hardware and software including as shown in respect to computer system memory operating system application programs graphical user interface GUI processor and storage which may contain electronic information such as electronic documents. The relevancy scoring techniques of the present invention described in detail hereafter are preferably in the form of software stored on machine readable medium and comprising instructions executed for example by the processor of computer . The instructions related to the relevance scoring techniques may be stored as an application program in system memory . For purposes of this description and not by way of limitation we will refer to the relevancy scoring function as Relevancy Scoring Module. The operating system should be suitable for use with the Relevancy Scoring Module and browser functionality described herein for example Microsoft Windows Vista business enterprise and ultimate editions or Windows XP Professional with SP2. Also the Relevancy Scoring Module and associated software may include custom integration with Adobe Acrobat applications scanning software and Microsoft Office applications e.g. Outlook Word and Excel. Application programs may include for example Adobe Acrobat Microsoft Office 2007 Office XP or Office 2003. The system may require the client machines to be compatible with minimum threshold levels of processing capabilities e.g. Intel Pentium III speed e.g. 500 MHz and other parameters.

System may further comprise interface peripherals such as monitor keyboard and printer and may be used to communicate remotely such as via the Internet with database server system . System may include a network of computers such as over a LAN WLAN Ethernet token ring FDDI ring or other communications network infrastructure. An operator or user may establish communication link with the database system . Separate document and searching system may be configured in a similar fashion as system . The configuration described in this example is one of many and is not limiting as to the invention. Software to perform functions associated with system may include self contained applications within a desktop or server or network environment and may utilize local databases such as SQL 2005 or above or SQL Express IBM DB2 or other suitable database to store documents collections and data associated with processing such information. Any of several suitable communication links are available such as one or a combination of wireless LAN WLAN ISDN X.25 DSL and ATM type networks for example.

In one exemplary implementation the inventive Relevancy Scoring Module is executed after traditional IE has been performed on a document resulting in a list of terms and perhaps locations i.e. where terms appear in the document. After the list of terms has been generated the Relevancy Scoring Module is applied against the document using the list of terms to assess the about ness of the terms or entities in the list to the document from which the list came. The Relevancy Scoring Module scores and ranks the entities or terms on the list by their relevance or centrality to the text contained in the document. The Relevancy Scoring Module in this exemplary manner assigns a score between 0 and 1 to each entity where 1 denotes maximum relevancy and 0 minimal relevancy. The scores are assigned to each entity in each document but are comparable across documents. The scores can further be used to rank the entities as to their relevancy to the document. In addition the scores can be used to obtain binary yes no relevancy determination by applying a threshold to the relevancy score.

Unlike other relevance scoring methods such as TFIDF that are corpus based the current method is corpus independent. TFIDF attempts to determine relevance based on identifying terms from a document and then making a comparison across many documents the corpus or collection of references and comparing how many times a term appears in the subject document with the number of occurrences in reference documents corpus . In contrast the Relevancy Scoring Module looks within the subject document to determine relevancy of the document to an entity or term or vice versa. The invention bases the score on the internal structure of the document at hand as discussed in detail below to provide a way to determine relevance when concerned with a single document or when the appropriate reference collection is not clearly defined e.g. web pages . The structure of the document is more critical to the invention to determine relevancy than comparing the document against a collection of documents. The invention may be used independently from the IE process for scoring entity lists provided by other means e.g. manually created . The Relevancy Scoring Module may be used to generate one or more intermediate relevancy score or scores see count intro range and gap deviation scores discussed below which may then be supplemented using other techniques such as TFIDF corpus based analysis or other techniques to arrive at an aggregate relevancy score and or ranking.

At step the aforementioned scores are then weighted and combined or aggregated into a single score. The list of terms may then be ranked based on relevancy. The aggregate score may be finally normalized such that the highest scoring entity will be given the score of 1. However normalization is optional and may also be based on the aggregate score reaching a pre defined threshold. In one manner weighting may be accomplished by giving each score a constant multiplier between 0 and 1 e.g. count score by 0.5 intro by 0.1 range and gap scores by 0.2 then the scores are added to attain a composite score. It is not necessary that the highest score is normalized to a 1 rating. By not normalizing the high score to a score of 1 the process may be used to allow for relevance between documents. One optional bit of additional processing may include taking the collective across all documents score and then normalizing that score on a collective basis as opposed to normalizing on a per document level. In this manner the invention may be used to determine relevancy across a collection or corpus of documents.

More particularly in one preferred embodiment the relevancy scoring process is as set forth in the following Table 1 and then as exemplified in the examples of Tables 2 13. Table 1 sets forth in detail the preferred relevancy scoring process.

Tables 2 and 3 below illustrate a first example Example 1 for a document entitled GM s New Chair Is Rebuilder. The process as detailed in Table 1 is applied against the document of Table 2 to generate relevancy scores for the terms separately generated and as listed below.

In this example an IE process separate from the process of Table 1 may be applied to determine a list of entities contained in the document of Example 1. How the list is generated is not critical to the invention. For instance the list may be generated manually or automatically using IE techniques well known and discussed above. In any event the following list of entities grouped by entity type company country organization and people is associated with the document of Example 1 

Using this list of entities the process of Table 1 is applied against the document of Example 1 which yields the Relevancy Scores as set forth in Table 3 below. In this example the entities are sorted by relevancy score.

With reference to the relevancy ranks of Table 3 applying the process of Table 1 against the document of Example 1 yields a relevancy score for each of the entities listed above. The relevancy score is a number between 0 and 1 with the score closest to 1 signifying a term or entity that is the most relevant to the content of the document. Another way of looking at this is the bigger the score the more the document is about that term or entity. For example in the document of Example 1 ten different people are mentioned in the document. However Ed Whitacre achieves a relevancy score of 0.791 and the remaining nine receive a relevancy score of below 0.26. Accordingly in accordance with the relevancy scoring process of the present invention the article of Example 1 is clearly more about Ed Whitacre than any of the other persons mentioned in the article and a reading confirms as much. Accordingly Of the other types of entities General Motors is the highest ranked company 0.723 United States is the highest ranked country 0.647 and the U.S. Government is the highest ranking organization 0.315 .

Tables 4 and 5 below illustrate a second example Example 2 for a document entitled Porsche Enlists Qatar s Help With Volkswagen Deal. The process as detailed in Table 1 is applied against the document of Table 4 to result in relevancy ranks as set forth in Table 5 for each of the entities identified in the list below.

Applying this list to the process of Table 1 yields the Relevancy Scores set forth in Table 5. In this example the entities are sorted by relevancy score.

With reference to the relevancy ranks of Table 5 applying the process of Table 1 against the document of Example 2 yields a relevancy score for each of the entities listed above. As with Example 1 the relevancy score is a number between 0 and 1 with the score closest to 1 signifying a term or entity that is the most relevant to the content of the document. In the document of Example 2 nine different companies are scored in the document. Porsche 0.765 is the highest ranking company and the next in line is Volkswagon 0.700 . Accordingly in accordance with the relevancy scoring process of the present invention the article of Example 2 is clearly more about companies than it is about people mentioned in the article and a reading confirms as much. Of the other types of entities Germany is the highest ranked country 0.312 Qatari government is the highest ranked organization 0.228 and Aleksej Wunrau is the highest ranking person 0.129 . In addition where entities are associated in some manner to form a collective entity e.g. car companies could be combined to form an even higher ranked combined or collective entity. This may be particularly beneficial in taxonomies that focus on corporations having multiple entities e.g. subsidiaries etc. or families with multiple persons of interest e.g. Bush family associated with former presidents and others.

Tables 6 and 7 below illustrate a third example Example 3 for a document entitled Investcorp Eyes Regional Luxury Firms. The process as detailed in Table 1 is applied against the document of Table 6 to result in relevancy ranks as set forth in Table 7 for each of the entities identified in the list below.

The process of Table 1 applied against this list yields the Relevancy Scores set forth in Table 7. In this example the entities are sorted by relevancy score.

With reference to the relevancy ranks of Table 7 applying the process of Table 1 against the document of Example 3 yields a relevancy score for each of the entities listed above. As with Example 1 the relevancy score is a number between 0 and 1 with the score closest to 1 signifying a term or entity that is the most relevant to the content of the document. In the document of Example 3 four different companies six different countries and one person and organization are scored in the document. Investcorp 0.753 is the highest ranking company and the highest ranked entity however Azmat Taufique person 0.699 and Gulf Opportunity Fund organization 0.677 also received a relatively high score. The highest ranked country is Bahrain with a score of 0.425. Other techniques may then be applied to classify the document further. For example in this case the term gulf appears and the countries mentioned are in the Middle East.

Tables 8 and 9 below illustrate a fourth example Example 4 for a document entitled Microsoft Adobe Warn Of Critical Security Flaws. The process as detailed in Table 1 is applied against the document of Table 8 to result in relevancy scores as set forth in Table 9 for each of the entities identified in the list below.

The process of Table 1 applied against this list yields the Relevancy Scores set forth in Table 9. In this example the entities are sorted by relevancy score.

With reference to the relevancy ranks of Table 9 applying the process of Table 1 against the document of Example 4 yields a relevancy score for each of the entities listed above. As with Example 1 the relevancy score is a number between 0 and 1 with the score closest to 1 signifying a term or entity that is the most relevant to the content of the document. In the document of Example 4 five different companies are scored in the document with three of them scoring high relevancy and two receiving low relevancy scores. Microsoft 0.755 is the highest ranking company and the highest ranked entity with Adobe and Adobe Systems Inc. receiving scores of 0.714. Apple received a much lower score of 0.142 and McAfee Inc received a score of 0.080. The only other entity scored Dave Marcus as a person received a score of 0.080. Other techniques may then be applied to classify the document further. For example in this case the companies are all software companies.

Tables 10 and 11 below illustrate a fifth example Example 5 for a document entitled Futurama Has New Future On Comedy Central. The process as detailed in Table 1 is applied against the document of Table 10 to result in relevancy ranks as set forth in Table 11 for each of the entities identified in the list below.

In this case there is only one entity type people. The process of Table 1 applied against this list yields the Relevancy Scores set forth in Table 11. In this example the entities are sorted by relevancy score.

With reference to the relevancy ranks of Table 11 applying the process of Table 1 against the document of Example 5 yields a relevancy score for each of the entities listed above. As with Example 1 the relevancy score is a number between 0 and 1 with the score closest to 1 signifying a term or entity that is the most relevant to the content of the document. In the document of Example 5 six different people type entities are scored in the document with two of them scoring high relevancy and the remaining four receiving relatively low relevancy scores. Matt Groenig 0.619 is the highest ranking entity with David X. Cohen receiving the next highest score of 0.529. The remaining entities received scores of less than 0.20.

Tables 12 and 13 below illustrate a sixth example Example 6 for a document entitled CEO Forgot To Tell Wife About Pay Cut. The process as detailed in Table 1 is applied against the document of Table 12 to result in relevancy scores as set forth in Table 13 for each of the entities identified in the list below.

The process of Table 1 applied to this list yields the Relevancy Scores set forth in Table 13. In this example the entities are sorted by relevancy score.

With reference to the relevancy ranks of Table 13 applying the process of Table 1 against the document of Example 6 yields a relevancy score for each of the entities listed above. As with Example 1 the relevancy score is a number between 0 and 1 with the score closest to 1 signifying a term or entity that is the most relevant to the content of the document. In the document of Example 6 two companies and one person type entities are scored with the person Willie Walsh scoring the highest relevancy score 0.691 . British Airways Plc and Reuters receive relevancy scores of 0.466 and 0.245 respectively.

The present invention is not to be limited in scope by the specific embodiments described herein. It is fully contemplated that other various embodiments of and modifications to the present invention in addition to those described herein will become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art from the foregoing description and accompanying drawings. Thus such other embodiments and modifications are intended to fall within the scope of the following appended claims. Further although the present invention has been described herein in the context of particular embodiments and implementations and applications and in particular environments those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that its usefulness is not limited thereto and that the present invention can be beneficially applied in any number of ways and environments for any number of purposes. Accordingly the claims set forth below should be construed in view of the full breadth and spirit of the present invention as disclosed herein.

