---

title: Contemporaneous latching and fueling arrangement for fueling a water vessel
abstract: A method and apparatus for securing and fueling a surface water vessel at a fueling block, connected to and remote from a parent ship. The surface water vessel may be a manned or an unmanned surface vehicle, for example. According to the invention, the surface water vessel includes a probe for securing the water vessel to the fueling block and also for receiving fuel from the parent ship at the fueling block. The fueling block includes an opening for receiving the probe therein.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08225735&OS=08225735&RS=08225735
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08225735
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090807
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 12 079 063 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 020 505 hereby incorporated by reference entitled Probe Receiver Device for Recovering Surface Water Vessels filed Mar. 3 2008. This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 268 655 filed May 19 2009.

The following description was made in the performance of official duties by employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the claimed invention may be manufactured used licensed by or for the United States Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon.

The following description relates generally to a method and apparatus for fueling a surface water vessel and in particular an arrangement for the contemporaneous latching and fueling of a surface water vessel at a location that is remote from a parent ship.

The recovery of smaller surface water vessels such as manned or unmanned surface water vessels USVs by larger parent ships is an emerging technology. Once recovered by the parent ship servicing operations such as fueling may be performed. Typically the recovery of a smaller vessel is accomplished by driving the smaller vessel alongside a stationary parent ship and lifted by davit into the ship. Alternatively the smaller water vessel may be driven up a ramp into the larger ship.

Traditional methods of capturing smaller surface water vessels can cause damage to the hull of the smaller vessel. For example some USVs weigh about 20 000 lbs and are made from materials such as aluminum. A capturing method that for example requires the USV to be driven into a parent ship or be lifted and dropped onto the parent ship can cause damage to the aluminum hull resulting in expensive repairs. The prior art does not teach a method and apparatus that captures the smaller vessel in a controlled manner away from direct contact with the parent ship in order to perform servicing operations such as fueling.

In one aspect the invention is a fueling system for securing and fueling a water vessel at a floating station. In this aspect the fueling system includes a parent ship for supplying fuel and a fuel conduit having a first end and a second end. The fuel conduit is attached to the parent ship at the first end. The system further includes a floating station remote from the parent ship. The second end of the fuel conduit is attached to the floating station for transporting fuel from the parent ship to the floating station. The floating station includes an opening for receiving a probe. In this aspect the system further includes a water vessel with a probe with the probe positioned within the opening of the floating station. The probe receives fuel from the parent ship via the fuel conduit and the floating station.

In another aspect the invention is a latching and fueling arrangement for securing and fueling a water vessel. The latching and fueling arrangement includes a water vessel. The water vessel includes a vessel hull an elongated probe having a probe head section. The elongated probe is attached to the vessel hull. In this aspect the invention further includes a fueling block. The fueling block having an elongated opening for receiving the elongated probe a clamping arrangement for latching the probe and a displaceable fuel feeding cylinder. In this aspect when the elongated probe is latched in the elongated opening the fuel feeding cylinder is slidable into and out of the head section of the elongated probe.

In another aspect the invention is a method of servicing a water vessel. The method includes the providing of a parent ship with a fuel supply. The method further includes providing a fueling block remote from the parent ship. In this aspect the method further includes providing a fuel feeding line from the parent ship to the fueling block and directing the water vessel to the fueling block. The method further includes securing the water vessel to the fueling block by inserting a fuel receiving probe into the fueling block.

The middle flow section transmits fuel from the head section to the connection base section . The fuel enters the middle flow section via entry holes in a first separation ring . Flow section includes an elongated fuel channel which receives fuel from the entry holes . The channel extends from the first separation ring to a second separation ring which separates the middle flow section from the connection base section . The separation ring may also include one or more holes allowing fuel to travel from the middle flow section to the base section . The channel in the middle flow section may have a narrowing diameter as the channel extends from the first separation ring to the second separation ring . also shows an insulated conduit for insulating wiring and other electronic elements from the fuel and other undesired elements.

The contact cap has an upper lip portion which protrudes through the opening at the top of the cover . also shows through hole in cap through which the push rod may extend. As outlined below when the probe extends into the fueling block of the floating station proper insertion of the probe is detected when the upper lip portion of the contact cap initially contacts and is pushed back by a valve arrangement within the block . This motion overcomes the loaded spring bias on the plunger and the plunger element is forced away form the probe tip towards the proximity element . Proper insertion is detected based on the location of element with respect to element .

The first cross mount and hydraulic cylinder pair are elements of a clamping arrangement for securing the probe within the elongated opening . The clamping arrangement also includes a plurality of tines one of which is shown in a plurality of lateral channels and a plurality of movable holders spheres or balls . The spheres are radially displaceable by movement in the lateral channels . The hydraulic cylinder is operatively attached to the plurality of tines . The operation of the hydraulic cylinders the tines the lateral channels and the spheres is similar to that as disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 079 063 entitled Probe Receiver Device for Recovering Surface Water Vessels which is incorporated herein by reference for all that it discloses. When the hydraulic cylinder retracts the tines push the plurality of spheres along the channels into the circumferential channel of the probe thereby securely latching the elongated probe within the block . Subsequent to locking fuel may be supplied to the elongated probe . shows a fuel port that receives fuel from the parent ship via the conduit shown in . When fueling is initiated the fuel flows through the port to the fuel feeding cylinder . To initiate fueling the second cross mount and hydraulic cylinder pair communicate with the sensing and fuel regulating device of the probe . As outlined below the hydraulic cylinder pair retracts and moves the fuel feeding cylinder into and out of the elongated probe thereby regulating the flow of fuel into the probe .

If fueling is desired after the water vessel is secured within the fueling block an operator may initiate the fueling via an input device . The input device for initiating fueling may be remote to the water vessel or the floating station according to applicable embodiment of the invention. Upon initiation fuel from the parent vessel may be pumped to the fueling block via the fuel port . Alternatively fuel may be pumped to the fueling block before an operator initiates the fueling of the water vessel . Because of the structural arrangement of the valve in which the fuel feeding openings are blocked by the slidable cylindrical stopper fuel is kept within the fueling block.

When the input device sends the refueling command to the controller the controller actuates the second hydraulic cylinder thereby retracting the arm pulling the second cross mount towards the rear end of the fueling block as shown in . When the second cross mount moves toward the fueling block the valve arrangement travels in direction Xand enters into the head portion of the probe through the opening in the cover . As the valve arrangement enters the probe the valve arrangement continues to push back the contact cap in the direction X. The contact cap continues to move in the direction Xuntil resistance from the spring and the separation ring prevent any further motion leaving the cap in a receded position.

As shown in when the contact cap is in this receded position the concave surface of the fuel feeding cylinder maintains contact with the cap . However because the push rod is fixed and does not slide down with the contact cap as the contact cap slides into the receded position the push rod protrudes through the hole in the cap . The push rod then extends through the opening at the top of the fuel feeding cylinder . When the push rod extends through the opening the push rod contacts the protrusion tip of the cylindrical stopper thereby pushing the cylindrical stopper in the Xdirection. As shown in when the stopper is pushed back the fuel feeding openings of the cylindrical fuel feeding head are unblocked thereby allowing the fuel to flow through the one or more fuel feeding openings to the inside the probe . The fuel then flows from the head section of the probe to the middle flow section to the base section and out of the probe . The fuel is then fed to the fuel collection device via the hose shown in .

When fueling is no longer desired an operator may initiate the termination of fueling via the input device which sends a termination signal to the controller . Alternatively a sensing device within the fuel collection device may detect when the tank is full and send a termination signal to the controller . In response to a termination signal the controller extends the cylinder arm which moves the cross mount away from the rear end of the fueling block . This motion moves the valve arrangement in direction X so that the valve exits the probe . While exiting the probe the slidable cylindrical stopper moves away from the push rod . This motion away from the push rod combined with a force of spring pushes the stopper so that the stopper protrusion protrudes through the opening of the fuel feeding cylinder . Thus the slidable cylindrical stopper covers the fuel openings thereby terminating the flow of fuel.

In the arrangement when fueling is completed an operator may choose to keep the water vessel attached to the floating vessel via the probe . Thus the water vessel may be maintained for further servicing or may be towed by the floating station . Alternatively an operator may decide to release the floating vessel from the floating station . Similarly in the arrangement when fueling is completed an operator may choose to keep the water vessel attached to the parent ship by means of the fueling block and the swinging arms . Again the water vessel may be maintained for further servicing or may be towed by the parent ship or the water vessel may be released.

The water vessel is released from the fueling block when the operator sends a release signal via the input device which is transmitted to the controller . In response the controller extends cylinder arm which causes the cross mount to move away from the rear end of the fueling block . In response to the motion by the cross mount the spheres retract and release the probe disconnecting the water vessel from the floating station .

Step is the providing of a fueling block remote from the parent ship . As outlined above the fueling block may be positioned on the floating station which may be a solid structure or an inflated structure and may have any desired shape such as for example rectangular oval oblong circular or irregular. As shown in the floating station may have a substantially V shaped entry area . The fueling block may also be attached to the parent ship by means of swinging arms .

Step is the providing of a fuel feeding line from the parent ship to the fueling block . The fuel feeding line may be equipped with one or more valves for controlling the flow of fuel to the fueling block and to the water vessel . The valves may lock off the flow of fuel in circumstances when the conduit fails thereby preventing undue spillage of fuel into the surrounding water. Step is the directing of the water vessel to the fueling block . As shown in the water vessel is directed generally in direction . Step is the securing of the water vessel to the fueling block by inserting the probe into the block . When the fueling block is on a floating station as outlined above the floating station may have a substantially V shaped entry which helps to direct the water vessel so that the probe aligns with the fueling block . This is particularly beneficial when the water vessel is a USV. Additionally the fueling block may include a funnel shaped device to guide the probe into the block . The water vessel is secured to the fueling block when the probe is locked therewithin. Once secured the vessel may be fueled with fuel pumped from the parent vessel to the water vessel . Alternatively once secured the water vessel may be towed or other servicing operations may commence.

What has been described and illustrated herein are preferred embodiments of the invention along with some variations. The terms descriptions and figures used herein are set forth by way of illustration only and are not meant as limitations. For example elements of the invention may be exaggerated merely to illustrate the operation thereof. Those skilled in the art will recognize that many variations are possible within the spirit and scope of the invention which is intended to be defined by the following claims and their equivalents in which all terms are meant in their broadest reasonable sense unless otherwise indicated.

