---

title: Systems, methods, and computer readable media for application-level authentication of messages in a telecommunications network
abstract: Systems, methods, and computer readable media for application-level authentication in a telecommunications network are disclosed. According to one aspect, the subject matter described herein includes a method for application-level authentication of messages in a telecommunications network. The method includes, at a node in a telecommunications network, receiving, from a personal communications device having a user, a message requiring application-level authentication, the message including information associated with the user and incorporating first authentication information associated with the user, the first authentication information being provided from a source that is not the user of the personal communications device. A request for second authentication information associated with the user is sent to an authentication server. Second authentication information associated with the user is received from the authentication server, and the authenticity of the message is determined based on the second authentication information associated with the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09083680&OS=09083680&RS=09083680
owner: TEKELEC, INC.
number: 09083680
owner_city: Morrisville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090121
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 022 076 filed Jan. 18 2008 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The subject matter described herein relates to application level authentication in a telecommunications network. More particularly the subject matter described herein relates to systems methods and computer readable media for application level authentication of messages in a telecommunications network.

Users of telecommunications networks increasingly desire to use a cell phone or other personal communications device to make on line purchases perform banking or other transactions redeem coupons or use gift cards during in store transactions and a wide variety of other activities that may benefit from or even require authentication of the identity of the person seeking to perform the transaction. Short messaging service SMS messages are an increasingly popular mechanism for performing transactions using a personal communications device but there is no defined standard for authentication of SMS messages. Wireless network protocols such as GSM include some level of authentication but many wired network protocols do not. Furthermore wireless network authentication is limited to the network transport or session layer of a typical network protocol stack. While this level of authentication is useful to verify that the user s cell phone is allowed access onto the wireless network it does not address the need to verify to a bank for example that the person using the cell phone to transfer money out of an account is the actual owner of that account.

Consequently messages that originate from or transfer into wired networks may not be authenticated or may have authentication that is insufficient for the task at hand. Moreover the problem is not limited to SMS messages. Other types of messages that are sent through a telecommunications network may require or benefit from authentication. For example networked games such as massively multiplayer role playing games involve communication of messages back and forth between a player and the game server. In some games the play involves a form of commerce in the game currency such as where players buy and sell virtual property. Thus for both real and virtual commerce for example it becomes vitally important that there be authentication of messages at the application level. Without application level authentication these transactions pose a security risk and present opportunities for fraudulent transactions to be performed.

Accordingly there exists a need for application level authentication of messages in a telecommunications network.

According to one aspect the subject matter described herein includes a method for application level authentication of messages in a telecommunications network. The method includes at a node in a telecommunications network receiving from a personal communications device having a user a message requiring application level authentication the message including information associated with the user and incorporating first authentication information associated with the user the first authentication information being provided from a source that is not the user of the personal communications device. A request for second authentication information associated with the user is sent to an authentication server. Second authentication information associated with the user is received from the authentication server and the authenticity of the message is determined based on the second authentication information associated with the user.

As used herein the term application level authentication refers to authentication that is performed at the application level or equivalent of a network protocol stack and specifically excludes authentication that occurs at levels below the application level in a network protocol stack such as the physical data link network transport session or presentation layers of the Open Systems Interconnection OSI network protocol stack or equivalent.

As used herein the term authentication information refers to information that is used to authenticate the identity of the sender of a message.

As used herein the term authentication server refers to an entity such as an application server or other node on a network that provides an authentication service usually in response to receiving a request for authentication from an authentication client or other entity requesting authentication from the authentication server. The authentication server may perform the authentication itself or it may provide to the requesting entity information that the requesting entity may use to perform the authentication.

According to another aspect the subject matter described herein includes a method for application level authentication of messages in a telecommunications network. The method includes at a personal communications device for communicating with a telecommunications network receiving from an authentication information source that is not a user of the personal communications device authentication information associated with a sender of a message and sending a message requiring application level authentication the message incorporating the authentication information.

As used herein the term personal communications device refers to any device by which a user may communicate with another entity. Example personal communication devices include cell phones mobile phones pagers personal digital assistants PDAs etc.

As used herein the term authentication information source refers to any source of authentication information and the term authentication information providing entity refers to any provider of authentication information.

According to yet another aspect the subject matter described herein includes a system for application level authentication in a telecommunications network. The system includes a personal communications device configured for sending a message requiring application level authentication in a telecommunications network the message including information associated with a sender of the message and incorporating first authentication information associated with the sender of the message the first authentication information being provided from a source that is not the user of the personal communications device. The system also includes a node in the telecommunications network configured for receiving the message requiring application level authentication and in response to receiving the message for sending a request for second authentication information associated with the sender. The system also includes an authentication server for receiving the request for second authentication information associated with the sender and in response to receiving the request providing to the node the second authentication information associated with the sender. The node upon receiving the second authentication information determines the authenticity of the message requiring application level authentication based on the second authentication information.

According to yet another aspect the subject matter described herein includes an apparatus for performing application level authentication. The apparatus includes an authentication information module for providing authentication information and a personal communications device locally communicatively coupled with the authentication information module for communicating with a telecommunications network and for receiving authentication information from the authentication information module generating a message requiring application level authentication and incorporating the authentication information and sending the generated message.

As used herein an entity is communicatively coupled to another if the entities can communicate messages data or other information to and from each other. As used herein an entity is locally communicatively coupled to another if the two entities that are communicatively coupled to each other are in close proximity to each other.

The subject matter described herein for application level authentication of messages in a telecommunications network may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. As such the terms function or module as used herein refer to hardware software and or firmware for implementing the feature being described. In one exemplary implementation the subject matter described herein may be implemented using a computer readable medium having stored thereon computer executable instructions that when executed by the processor of a computer perform steps.

Exemplary computer readable media suitable for implementing the subject matter described herein include disk memory devices chip memory devices programmable logic devices and application specific integrated circuits. In addition a computer program product that implements the subject matter described herein may be located on a single device or computing platform or may be distributed across multiple devices or computing platforms.

As used herein the terms gaming server on line gaming server multiplayer networked game server and interactive gaming application collectively refer to entities that provide access to a game or gaming program. A gaming server may provide gaming services to one or more local gaming clients. An on line gaming server may provide gaming services to local and or remote gaming clients. A multiplayer networked game server may provide gaming clients access to a multiplayer networked game which may be distributed across multiple game servers for example. An interactive gaming application may be a game application that does not use the client server type of communication.

As used herein the term instant messaging service message refers to any message sent using a form of real time communication between two or more people which may be based on typed text e.g. short message service or SMS and which may involve transmission of media streams e.g. multimedia messaging service or MMS and conveyed via devices connected over a telecommunications network such as the Internet or mobile communications networks.

As used herein the term encryption key refers to one input of an encryption algorithm used to encrypt or decrypt data. As used herein the term encryption parameter refers generally to any aspect of the encryption algorithm that may be changed including not only the encryption key value but also the encryption key length the input block length the encryption method such as electronic code book output block chaining and cipher block chaining number or rounds or operations performed and so on.

As used herein the term short code refers to telephone numbers significantly shorter than full telephone numbers which can also be used to address SMS messages from mobile phones or fixed phones.

As used herein the term fob refers to a physical device that is locally communicatively coupled to another physical device. The fob may be physically connected to and disconnected from the other device in order to effect communication between the two devices or the fob may communicate to the other device wirelessly with the other device usually when the two devices are in close proximity to each other.

As used herein the terms network provider and network carrier refer to an entity such as a business entity that provides access to a telecommunications network or that provides and maintains at least some portion of the telecommunications network.

As used herein the term application refers to a program module functional routine applet or other entity that may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. As used herein the term application provider refers to an entity that provides or otherwise makes available an application.

In accordance with the subject matter disclosed herein systems methods and computer readable media are provided for application level authentication in a telecommunications network. is a block diagram illustrating an exemplary system for application level authentication in a telecommunications network according to an embodiment of the subject matter described herein.

Referring to a system for application level authentication includes a personal communications device configured for sending a message requiring application level authentication in a telecommunications network . The message includes information associated with a sender of the message such as information identifying the sender of the message. The message also includes first authentication information associated with the sender of the message. For example the message may include a username and password a user account number and personal identification number PIN and the like. System may include an authentication requesting node for receiving the message and in response to receiving the message for sending a request for second authentication information associated with the sender. System may include an authentication server for receiving the request for second authentication information associated with the sender and in response to receiving the request providing the second authentication information to the authentication requesting node . Upon receiving the second authentication information node may determine the authenticity of the message requiring application level authentication based on the second authentication information. The operation of system is described in more detail in below.

Device may be a mobile communications device such as a cell phone a personal digital assistant PDA or a mobile communicating device platform for communicating with network via an air interface such as a base station subsystem BSS of a GSM network.

The message requiring application level authentication may take many forms. For example the message may be a short message service SMS message an unstructured supplementary service data USSD message a multimedia messaging service message a SIP messaging service message an instant message or an application specific message such as a hypertext markup language HTML message an extended markup language XML or a simple object application protocol SOAP message. The message may include a request for a particular service or for a particular transaction. In one example the message may be a request for a banking transaction such as a commercial transaction or a request to transfer money to or from a bank account. In another example the message may contain information conveyed between an on line gamer and a networked gaming application. For communications utilizing a stateless protocol each message may require its own authentication. The message may contain text binary data or both.

The information associated with the sender of the message requiring application level authentication may include a personal identifier number PIN a username an international mobile subscriber identity IMSI a mobile subscriber ISDN MSISDN identifier a mobile identification number MIN a uniform resource identifier URI and a directory number associated with the sender or other information that may be used to identify the sender of the message including message parameters such as calling party number.

The first and second authentication information associated with the sender may include a PIN a password a one time password OTP an encryption key an encryption parameter or other information useful for authenticating a sender of a message.

In one embodiment the first authentication information may be provided to device by an authentication information providing entity that is locally and communicatively coupled to device such as a security fob that is physically connected to device or connected to device via Bluetooth infra red near field communication NFC or other wireless connection. For example security fob may provide to device an encryption key that may be used for example to decrypt or encrypt messages sent to or from device .

In an alternate embodiment the first authentication information may be provided by a network entity for providing the first authentication information in response to requests for authentication information. For example the first authentication information may be provided by authentication server in response to a request from device for the first authentication information.

In another alternate embodiment the first authentication information may be entered by the user of device . For example a user of device who wants to send a message may enter a personal identification number or password via a keypad on the device.

In the embodiment illustrated in authentication requesting node is an application server AS . In alternate embodiments the request for authentication information associated with the sender may be issued by other nodes in system . For example the request for authentication information may come from a session initiation protocol SIP application server a service control point SCP a home location register HLR a visitor location register VLR a gaming server an on line gaming server a multiplayer networked game server an interactive gaming application or any other network entity for providing a service or performing a transaction in response to receiving a service or transaction request. The request for authentication information may come from a gateway such as a mobile switching center MSC or a service switching point SSP a signal routing node such as a signal transfer point STP a call session control function CSCF node an Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS node or other network entity that processes and routes network messages.

The request for authentication information hereinafter referred to as an authentication query may be characterized as being triggered or triggerless . An authentication query is said to be triggered if the query is sent in response to a specific request to perform the query. In contrast an authentication query is said to be triggerless if the query is sent as a result of a determination in the absence of a specific request to authenticate that a received message is of a type that requires application level authentication. Signaling message routing nodes and gateways are logical candidates to perform triggerless application level authentication while application servers or other nodes providing a service are logical candidates for performing triggered application level authentication.

In the embodiment illustrated in fob is an RSA fob provided by the provider of banking application A and thus may communicate only with banking application A. In one alternate embodiment a single fob may operate with all applications. In other alternate embodiments a separate fob may be required for each application for each application provider for each user and or for each device .

In one embodiment the authentication information may be generated using an algorithm that uses various types of information as some form of input such as seed data parameter data encryption keys etc. into the algorithm. The information that may be used as input into the algorithm may include information associated with the sender of the generated message the authentication information module and or the personal communications device. The information may include the time that the message is generated the date on which the message is generated the geographic location of the personal communications device and or the network with which the personal communications device is communicating. The information may include information about the provider of an application existing on the personal communications device and may include information provided by the sender of the message at the time that the message is generated.

The message may incorporate the first authentication information in a variety of ways. For example some or all of the first authentication information may be included in the message payload. In the scenario described above the request for a banking transaction may include the user s personal information number PIN or password which may be used to authenticate the user s identity. Some or all of the first authentication information may be used to modify compress or encrypt some portion of the message or message payload. For example the first authentication information may include an encryption key or encryption parameter which device may use to encrypt the all or some portion of the message or message payload.

The first authentication information may be provided to device by a authentication information provisioning module. In one embodiment the authentication information provisioning module may be a locally communicatively coupled device such as fob . For example fob may provide a one time password or OTP to device upon request. Fob may be connected to device physically such as via a USB or other bus or serial connection or via a wireless link such as an infra red connection e.g. IRDA a near field communications NFC connection or a radio frequency connection such as a BLUETOOTH connection.

In an alternate embodiment the authentication information provisioning module may be a network entity such as authentication server . For example prior to sending the message requiring authentication device may request a one time password from authentication server . In one embodiment device may request the first authentication information e.g. the OTP by sending an SMS message to a short code. For example device may send an SMS message to SC 100 where 100 is the short code for authentication server . Device may receive the one time password from authentication server and incorporate it into the message requiring authentication. The message requiring authentication is then sent to node .

At block a request for second authentication information associated with the user is sent to an authentication server at block the second authentication information associated with the user is received from the authentication server and at block the authenticity of the message is determined based on the second authentication information. These operations will now be described in more detail.

In one embodiment node may send an authentication request to authentication server where the request for authentication includes both the information associated with the user and the first authentication information associated with the user message . In this embodiment node is essentially asking authentication server to perform the authentication and inform node of the results. Using the banking example above node may send to authentication server an authentication request that includes the identity of the user and the one time password provided to device by fob . The user may be identified by a variety of means including by PIN username international mobile subscriber identity IMSI number mobile subscriber ISDN MSISDN number mobile identification number MIN uniform resource identifier URI directory number DN and so on. Authentication server may perform the authentication step by using the user s ID to perform a lookup in a table database or other data store to find second authentication information associated with the user and then determine whether the message can be authenticated based on a comparison of the first authentication information to the second authentication information. For example node may receive a message that includes the user s PIN. Node may extract the PIN and MSISDN number from the message and include them in an authentication request to authentication server . Authentication server may use the MSISDN number to look up the user s PIN from its database. If the PIN from the database matches the PIN sent from the user authentication server may return an authentication successful message to node otherwise authentication server may return an authentication failed message to node message .

In an alternate embodiment node may request authentication information from authentication server which node may then use to make its own authentication determination. For example node may send to authentication server a request for authentication information the request including information identifying the user. Since node is making the determination of authenticity the request for authentication information need not include the first authentication information associated with the user. Authentication server may use the information associated with or identifying the user to perform a lookup as described above to determine the second authentication information associated with the user. Authentication server may then send the second authentication information to node . In this embodiment node rather than authentication server may compare the first and second authentication information and make a determination of authenticity based on that comparison.

Although the authentication steps described above illustrate authentication interactions between node and authentication server the scope of the subject matter described herein is not so limited the same interactions may occur between another network entity and authentication server . As stated above a request for authentication or a request for authentication information may be generated triggerlessly in which case the authentication steps described above with respect to node and authentication server may be performed by signal routing node and authentication server or by gateway and authentication server for example.

As described above the authentication information may be provided to device by the user e.g. by entering data via a key pad touch screen microphone etc. by a locally communicatively coupled device such as fob by a network entity such as authentication server or some combination of the above. In one embodiment fob continually generates a series of one time passwords generating a new OTP periodically such as every 30 60 or 120 seconds for example. Once the new OTP is generated the previous OTP is considered to have expired and can no longer be used for authentication purposes. In one embodiment fob may generate the OTPs in a pseudo random sequence using a linear feedback shift register LFSR in hardware or an equivalent function in software. The pseudo random sequence for each fob is duplicated at authentication server . In these embodiments the fobs are typically synchronized with the server prior to being distributed to the users and from the point of synchronization the fob and server will generate the same pseudo random sequence of OTPs. The server typically maintains separate LFSRs or equivalent for each fob. The OTP sequence for one fob may be distinct from the OTP sequence for another fob based on the seed or initial value programmed into the LFSRs of the fob and server at the time of synchronization.

In these embodiments a new OTP is generated periodically and the old OTP expired whether or not the OTP is used fob will send the value of the current OTP to device whenever the device requests an OTP. Once device receives the current OTP device has only a limited time during which the OTP remains valid. If the message requiring authentication does not arrive at node with enough time for node to and authentication server to perform the authentication before the period of validity e.g. 60 seconds expires the message cannot be authenticated. This constraint makes man in the middle attacks in which a malicious party intercepts the message from device breaks the encryption decodes the message and recodes the message using the malicious party s authentication information before sending it on to the destination node extremely difficult due to the very limited time in which to perform the above mentioned steps before the OTP expires.

In an alternate embodiment fob may contain a large number of one time passwords in a true random sequence where each OTP can be used only once. For example fob may be a large secure flash memory programmed to provide device the next available OTP value after which that entry in memory is cleared or otherwise obfuscated. In these embodiments authentication server may store a duplicate copy of the list of OTPs for each fob. When a message requiring authentication is received by authentication server it may retrieve the next available OTP from its list for the user s fob and perform the authentication steps as described above.

In one embodiment authentication server may include an RSA authentication server RAS for receiving authentication queries or authentication information queries indicated on as A QUERY and I QUERY respectively and for returning authentication responses or authentication information responses indicated on as A RESP and I RESP respectively. Authentication server may store its authentication information in an authentication database DB which may be a table a database a data structure a memory or other form of data store including combinations of the above.

The authentication operations described in blocks and of may be implemented in various ways. Three different variations are illustrated in and will now be described in turn. In the first authentication information is provided by a locally communicatively coupled authentication information providing entity such as fob .

In one embodiment authentication server performs the authentication operation and returns the result to the node that requested authentication which in this example is node . Referring to in message fob sends a first authentication information associated with a sender to device . In this example the first authentication information is a one time password OTP. This information may be sent from fob to device in response to a request from device such as in preparation for sending an SMS or USSD message that requires authorization. Device creates the SMS message which includes information associated with the user such as information identifying the user UID and the first authentication information associated with the user OTP . For the purposes of illustration message may be a request to perform a brokerage operation involving shares owned by the sender of the message.

Message is received by node which extracts the UID and OTP and sends an authentication query A QUERY message including the extracted UID and OTP to authentication server . Within authentication server RAS receives the A QUERY and may query DB message to determine if there is any authentication information associated with the user identified by UID. RAS may receive a response from DB message containing second authentication information OTP associated with the sender.

Authentication server may determine the authenticity of the message requiring authentication message based on the relationship between the first and second authentication information. For example authentication server may compare OTP and OTP block and if they are the same authentication server may determine that message is authentic. Authentication server may then send to node an authentication response message such as A RESP message to indicate whether the authentication was successful or not successful e.g. a go or a no go GO NG . Based on the authentication response message node may choose to allow or deny the brokerage transaction block . For example node may allow the transaction if the A RESP message indicated a GO and deny the transaction if the A RESP message indicated a NG .

In another embodiment authentication server provides authentication information to node and node performs the authentication operation. Referring again to the descriptions of messages and are the same as for messages and respectively and will not be repeated herein. Message is received by node which extracts the UID information and sends an authentication information query I QUERY message including the extracted UID to authentication server . The descriptions of messages and are the same as for messages and respectively and will not be repeated herein. If RAS receives second authentication information e.g. OTP from DB authentication server may send an authentication information response I RESP message to node .

Node may determine the authenticity of the message requiring authentication message based on the relationship between the first and second authentication information. For example node may compare OTP and OTP and if they are the same node may determine that message is authentic block and subsequently allow or deny the transaction block .

In yet another embodiment the first authentication information is used to encrypt the payload of the message requiring authentication. In this example the payload of the message includes private information such as the user s PIN. The description for message is the same as for message and will not be repeated herein. In preparation for a financial transaction a user may be required to provide additional identifying information. For example an application may prompt the user to enter the user s PIN. This operation is illustrated in message . In one embodiment the first authentication information e.g. OTP may be an encryption key used by an encryption algorithm to encrypt all or part of the message payload. In this example the user s PIN is encrypted using OTP as a key as indicated by the notation OTPPIN and sent as part of an SMS message . As in examples above SMS message also includes information associated with a user such as information identifying a user UID.

The descriptions of messages and are the same as for messages and respectively and will not be repeated herein. If node receives an I RESP from authentication server that includes second authentication information OTP authentication server may use OTP to decrypt the encrypted portion of the message payload block determine whether the decrypted PIN is correct and or whether the decrypted message is a valid message block and based on that determination allow or deny the transaction block .

In an alternate embodiment upon receiving encrypted message node may send an A QUERY message including UID and encrypted payload OTPPIN to RAS which uses UID to retrieve OTP from DB . RAS may then use OTP to decrypt the encrypted payload verify that the PIN and or message is valid and issue an A RESP message to node . Node may then allow or deny the transaction. In one embodiment the transaction itself is also encrypted in which case the A RESP message from RAS to node may either include OTP which node may then use to decrypt the transaction itself or include the decrypted transaction which node may execute or not depending on whether RAS returned a GO or NG result.

In one embodiment the first authentication information associated with the sender of a message requiring authentication may be provided by a network entity rather than a locally communicatively coupled entity such as a fob. Message is a message sent from device to RAS requesting first authentication information. Message is a response message sent from RAS to device and containing the first authentication information which in this example is a one time password OTP. Message is the message requiring authentication sent from device to node . In one embodiment messages and may be USSD messages. In alternative embodiments these messages may be SMS messages multimedia messaging service messages instant messages or application specific messages such as HTML messages XML messages and SOAP messages. The descriptions of items and are the same as for messages and respectively and will not be repeated herein.

In another embodiment the first authentication information may be a combination of information received from an authentication information providing entity and other information provided by the user. Message is a message sent from device to RAS requesting first authentication information. Message is a response message sent from RAS to device and containing the first authentication information which in this example is a one time password OTP. As stated above the first authentication information returned by RAS may take other forms and is not limited to one time passwords.

Message contains additional first authentication information provided by the user such as a PIN an account number another password etc. The first authentication information may be incorporated into a message requiring authentication sent from device to node . For example message may include a payload containing the user s PIN encrypted using OTP as an encryption key or parameter. Upon receipt of message node may generate an A QUERY including the information identifying the sender of the message requiring authentication UID and the encrypted payload OTPPIN. RAS may use the UID or other information identifying the sender to retrieve second authentication information associated with the sender OTP from authentication database DB messages and and use OTP to attempt to decrypt the encrypted payload OTPPIN block . If the decryption is successful e.g. generating a valid PIN or message block RAS may send an A RESP message indicating a GO . If the decryption is unsuccessful or if the resulting PIN or message is invalid RAS may send an A RESP message indicating a NG . In block node may allow or deny the requested transaction based on the results of the authentication operation.

In one embodiment the message requiring authentication may be a request for a transaction. In this scenario the result of authentication will determine whether or not the requested transaction will be allowed. In alternate embodiments the message requiring authentication may be of a nature such that the result of authentication informs other determinations such as whether or not the message will be delivered to its destination whether or not the contents of the message will be recorded e.g. in an event log whether or not the sender or receiver of the message will be billed for the message etc. For example an unauthorized message may be allowed to proceed but may cause a higher level of scrutiny to be given to subsequent messages from that sender.

In one embodiment signal routing node includes a triggerless SMS authentication function which intercepts messages determines whether a message requires authentication and if so performs an authentication function. SMS authentication function may maintain a table database data structure or other data store which it may use to determine whether a message requires authentication. In one embodiment SMS authentication function may maintain an authentication table for determining whether authentication is required for a particular message based on message characteristics such as message type sending party ID receiving party ID and so forth. For example SMS authentication function may intercept the Forward SM message determine that the message type is a mobile application part MAP SMS message that the directory number of the party sending the message is 9193803814 and that directory number of the receiving party is a short code SC 100. SMS authentication function may use these and or any other message characteristic to perform a lookup into authentication table . In this example SMS authentication function may find a matching entry in authentication table and determine that authentication is required e.g. the value of the Obtain RSA Key field in authentication table YES . If SMS authentication function determines that the message requires authentication SMS authentication function may send a query message message to authentication server . The query message may include information identifying the sender of the message such as the user s PIN.

In one embodiment authentication server may be an RSA Authority which may send a query response message to SMS authentication function . The response may include first authentication information associated with the sender such as an RSA key. SMS authentication function may then insert the first authentication information i.e. the RSA key to the original Forward SM message and forward the modified Forward SM message to node message . Alternatively SMS authentication function may create a new Forward SM message message including some information from the original Forward SM message message plus the first authentication information the RSA key and send the new message to node .

Upon receipt of the Forward SM message from SMS authentication function node may extract the first authentication information such as the PIN and RSA key and send an authorization query message to authentication server . Authentication server may send an authentication response message message to node . For example authentication server may use the PIN to retrieve the RSA key associated with the sender and compare the RSA key retrieved to the RSA key included in the authentication query message . If the RSA keys match authentication server may send an authentication response message indicating authentication success else the authentication response may indicate failure to authenticate.

In alternate embodiments authentication server could be co located or integrated with another entity on the network. For example authentication server could be co located with an SMS gateway a USSD gateway a session initiation protocol SIP server a call session control function CSCF node a signaling gateway or other entity that processes messages in a telecommunications network.

LIM includes various functions for sending and receiving signaling messages over SS signaling links. In the illustrated example LIM includes a message transfer part MTP level and function an I O buffer a gateway screening GWS function a discrimination function a distribution function and a routing function . MTP level and function performs MTP level and functions such as error detection error correction and sequencing of signaling messages. I O buffer stores inbound signaling messages before the messages are processed by higher layers. I O buffer also stores outbound signaling messages waiting to be transmitted over a signaling link by MTP level and function . Gateway screening function screens inbound signaling messages based on destination point code and optionally based on originating point code to determine whether the messages should be allowed into the network. Discrimination function analyzes the destination point code in each received signaling message to determine whether the signaling message should be processed by an internal processing module within node or whether the message should be routed over an outbound signaling link. Discrimination function forwards messages that are to be internally processed to distribution function . Discrimination function forwards messages that are to be routed over an outbound signaling link to routing function .

Distribution function distributes messages that are identified as requiring internal processing to the appropriate internal processing module. For example distribution function may forward SCCP messages to database services module for SCCP processing. Routing function routes signaling messages that are addressed to point codes other than the point code of node . For example routing function may forward messages to another link interface module not shown in or to data node for transmission over an outbound signaling link.

DCM includes various functions for sending and receiving SS messages over IP signaling links. In these functions include a physical layer function a network layer function a transport layer function an adaptation layer function and SS MTP functions as described with regard to LIM . Physical layer function may be any suitable physical layer function for sending and receiving frames that encapsulate network layer packets. In one exemplary implementation physical layer function may be implemented using an Ethernet transceiver. Network layer function may be implemented using Internet protocol such as IPv or IPv. Transport layer function may be implemented using any suitable transport layer protocol. Examples of transport protocols suitable for use with embodiments of the subject matter described herein include user datagram protocol UDP transmission control protocol TCP and stream control transmission protocol SCTP . Adaptation layer function may be implemented using any suitable adaptation layer for sending SS messages over IP. Examples of adaptation layers suitable for use with the subject matter described herein include MUA MPA SUA and TALI as described in the correspondingly named IETF Internet drafts and RFCs. The remaining functions of DCM are the same as those described with regard to LIM . Hence a description thereof will not be repeated herein.

DSM includes various functions and databases for processing signaling messages. In the illustrated example DSM incorporates the SMS authentication function and associated authentication table and also the functions of authentication server .

Service selection function receives messages from the interface processors and determines the type of service required for each message. For example service selection function may determine whether further screening of messages is required or whether the messages are simply to be global title translated and routed. In one embodiment service selection function may forward all CAP INAP SMS or USSD messages to target message screening function . For example target message screening function may identify CAP or INAP queries as potentially needing to be directed to authentication server . Similarly target message screening function may identify SMS or USSD messages as targeted message types that should be directed to SMS authentication function to determine whether the message requires authentication. The functions of authentication server and SMS authentication function are described above and will not be repeated herein.

It will be understood that various details of the subject matter described herein may be changed without departing from the scope of the subject matter described herein. Furthermore the foregoing description is for the purpose of illustration only and not for the purpose of limitation.

