---

title: Insulated iron-base powder for soft magnetic applications
abstract: The present invention relates to ferromagnetic powders with an electrically insulating layer on iron particles intended for the manufacture of components having improved soft magnetic properties at low and medium frequencies. The invention comprises an iron powder coated with a dielectric insulating layer comprising boron bearing compounds to form an insulated ferromagnetic powder. The present invention also relates to a method of making these insulated ferromagnetic powders. The present invention further relates to a method of synthesizing a product made from insulated ferromagnetic powders via a post-heat treatment at a moderate temperature (300° C. to 700° C.), to form a glass-like coating which acts as an electrical insulator. A preferred embodiment of the present invention is obtained when small amounts of alkali bearing compounds are added to the precursors to modify the coating chemistry and significantly increase the electrical resistivity after heat treatment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08911663&OS=08911663&RS=08911663
owner: Quebec Metal Powders, Ltd.
number: 08911663
owner_city: Quebec
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20090305
---
The present invention relates to ferromagnetic powders with an electrically insulating layer on iron particles intended for the manufacture of components having improved soft magnetic properties at low and medium frequencies. The invention comprises an iron powder coated with a dielectric insulating layer comprising boron B bearing compounds to form an insulated ferromagnetic powder. The present invention also relates to a method of making these insulated ferromagnetic powders. The present invention further relates to a method of synthesizing a product made from insulated ferromagnetic powders via a post heat treatment at a moderate temperature 300 C. to 700 C. to form a glass like coating which acts as an electrical insulator. A preferred embodiment of the present invention is obtained when small amounts of alkali bearing compounds are added to the precursors to modify the coating chemistry and significantly increase the electrical resistivity after heat treatment.

This invention concerns the utilization at low to medium frequency magnetic solicitations of ferromagnetic materials such as elemental iron Fe nickel Ni and cobalt Co or other Fe Ni and Co based magnetic alloys. Such materials are characterized by a high permeability defined as the degree of magnetization of a material in response to a given magnetic field B a specific saturation point also designated saturation induction point over which no further magnetic induction can be created in the material and B a certain amount of residual induction remaining when the applied magnetic field is released.

The magnetic materials used in this invention are named soft magnetic as opposed to hard magnetic materials as they can be easily magnetized and demagnetized by an external magnetic field. The magnetic induction created in these materials when magnetized can be reduced to zero by applying a reverse magnetic field of strength H known as the coercive field. Broadly hard magnetic materials are those with coercivities above 10 kA m while soft magnetic materials are those with coercivities below 1 kA m. Note that properties like coercive field remanent induction and permeability are strongly dependent on the condition of the material. These properties are affected by such factors as heat treatment or deformation whereas maximum induction is mainly determined by the nature of the soft magnetic material e.g. composition density .

When magnetically solicited a fraction of the energy used to magnetize a soft magnetic material is dissipated in the form of thermal energy. At low frequency hysteresis phenomena defined by the irreversible variation in the magnetization associated with a change in the magnetic field strength dominate and are responsible for most of the core losses. However as the frequency of solicitation increases eddy currents are created in the soft magnetic material. This in turn generates a magnetic field opposed to the applied external magnetic field. These eddy current losses result in a decrease of the effective cross section of a part that can be magnetized. Eddy current losses can be decreased by either increasing the material resistivity or by splitting the magnetic circuit into smaller parts e.g. laminations particles .

Iron based powders are currently used in conventional powder metallurgy to elaborate structural parts using compaction and high temperature sintering operations. A majority of these parts are used in the automotive industry due to their mechanical attributes. In the last several decades metal powders have also been used to elaborate sintered components in which the magnetic property of the material is functionally important. Applications in this field include hard as well as soft magnetic devices normally intended for direct current DC magnetic solicitation.

More recently soft magnetic powder materials for low to high frequency applications have been developed. These materials consist of iron based powders insulated by an organic or inorganic coating which limits eddy current losses when frequency increases. These insulated ferromagnetic powders are also consolidated using a compaction step but in contrast to the standard powder metallurgy practice they are not sintered. Instead insulated ferromagnetic powders are heat treated at temperatures lower than 700 C. in order to stress relieve the parts without creating a metallurgical bonding between particles.

The resulting insulated ferromagnetic powder parts also known as soft magnetic composites SMC are intended to replace electrical sheets. Electrical sheets present some drawbacks. One such drawback is that the punching step may induce mechanical stresses which decrease the magnetic properties of the material. This operation produces a certain amount of scrap. It is also usually required that the punched laminates be deburred in order to remove the sharp edges. Furthermore depending on the sheet thickness and material quality core losses and acoustical noise increase significantly at higher frequency. Finally electrical sheets can only carry the magnetic flux in the 2D plane of the sheet thus limiting feasible machine designs.

Advantages of SMC over the electrical sheets are the following. First because of their isotropic nature the magnetic flux can also be carried in the third dimension thus allowing designers to decrease the outside diameter of the electrical motors while maintaining a similar torque and efficiency. Second due to the reduction of eddy current losses SMC materials have lower total core losses than electrical steels at a frequency higher than about 400 Hz to 1000 Hz depending on the comparative material. Finally the powder metallurgy process route allows the production of complex part shapes with no material loss while simultaneously minimizing the number of production steps.

Despite its advantages SMC materials present some limitations. When compared to electrical steels the maximum magnetic permeability of SMC is relatively low and makes them less preferable in applications where permeability is critical. Examples of lesser critical permeability applications are permanent magnet electrical motors in which a large air gap already exists between the stator and the rotor to accommodate the magnets. Furthermore SMC have higher hysteresis losses than electrical steels thus limiting their use at low frequency e.g. 60 Hz . Finally because of their porous nature and non sintered state these materials have a lower mechanical strength than laminated materials.

A critical parameter and main challenge in the fabrication of insulated ferromagnetic powders is the surface coating of the iron particles. The surface coating should be as thin as possible in order to minimize the attenuation of the magnetic flux while also presenting maximum dielectric properties. These dielectrics are categorized in two groups organic and inorganic coatings. Organic coatings normally offer a higher mechanical strength but the allowable stress relief temperature is limited to about 300 C. Inorganic coatings allow the SMC material to be heat treated at higher temperatures thus maximizing the material magnetic properties.

Inorganic types of coatings have been developed in the form of borate glass like coatings in order to maximize the magnetic properties of resulting materials. The dielectric properties of these inorganic glass like coatings are highly dependent on their composition. In glass science it is well known that the glass DC electrical conductivity is related to the ionic charge. For example borates and phosphates naturally form negatively charged glasses which can be changed using network modifier elements. These network modifiers usually present in the alkaline and alkaline earth groups interact with the glass former elements and decrease their network cross linking. This phenomenon decreases the glass transition temperature and furthermore neutralizes the glass ionic charge thus limiting current transportation.

Processing conditions of SMC materials strongly influence their final magnetic properties. For instance in order to maximize the magnetic induction in such SMC materials compacting pressures can be increased and the tooling heated to maximize the final density thus providing a direct effect on the magnetic induction. An important step in the processing is the post heat treatment which relieves partly the stresses induced in these materials during the compaction step. This stress relief heat treatment can be done in air and ideally at the highest possible temperature in order to decrease the material coercive field while maintaining a relatively high electrical resistivity to avoid metallurgical bonding between particles . Also depending on the solicitation frequency of the application the amount of dielectric and powder particle size can be adjusted. For instance as frequency increases finer particles and higher amounts of dielectric are required in order to minimize core losses. However this will negatively affect the maximum permeability.

As mentioned earlier this invention is intended for low to medium frequency soft magnetic applications. Examples of applications suitable for SMC materials include but are not limited to DC motors with brushes or brushless alternating current AC motors induction and synchronous transformers inductors linear motors and voice coils.

Numerous patents have been filed on insulated iron based powders for soft magnetic applications. Most of them however describe phosphate based coatings. For instance phosphate coated iron powders such as those described in WO 97 30810 H ganas are obtained by treating the base powder with orthophosphoric acid HPO in an organic solvent at a concentration between 0.5 and 20 2.5 to 120 ml of solution per kg of iron powder . The O P ratio in the thin coating layer as measured by ESCA method is between 1 and 30 and the total oxygen content is at most 0.2 higher than that of the base powder. In U.S. Pat. No. 6 344 273 Hitachi the phosphating solution contains a surfactant and a rust inhibitor this latter being an organic compound containing nitrogen and or sulphur having a lone pair of electrons suppressing the formation of iron oxide. The water base phosphate solution includes also a certain amount of at least one of magnesium Mg tin Sn manganese Mn cadmium Cd and calcium Ca .

There are also many other variants of coatings containing phosphate and borate glasses network formers. For example the U.S. Pat. No. 7 029 769 Toyota describes an insulating film which comprises two elements. The first element is a glassy insulation film which includes network former elements such as boron B phosphorous P oxygen O and iron and the second element generates cations whose hexa coordinated ion radius defined by Shannon R. D. is 0.073 nm or more and which are bivalent or more. This second element such as calcium Ca strontium Sr and yttrium Y is incorporated in the insulation film as a network modifier to improve its thermal resistance. As precursor of the insulation film boric acid is used in proportion 3 to 10 times lower than phosphoric acid.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 756 118 Bosch describes the method of producing a powdered metal composite having a high specific resistivity which contains at least two oxides encapsulating the powder forming at least one common phase. The starting material contains the iron powder and at least two antitack agents which leave an oxide residue when pyrolysed forming one phase of glass and a mixed oxide having a spinel structure metal phosphates and metal silicates. The antitack agent may include metal soaps metallic stearates and phosphoric acid boric acid silicic acid in the form of silane in total proportion relative to the weight of powder metal between 0.2 and 3 .

In some cases polymers are used in conjunction with inorganic coatings. For instance U.S. Pat. No. 6 537 389 Bosch discloses a wide range of silicon Si aluminum Al or boron B containing compounds with a predominantly polymeric nature used as precursors to produce an electrically insulating layer on soft magnetic powders by pyrolysis. Also WO 00 30835 H eganeas describes the methods of preparing and using an annealable insulated metal based powder. This material is made out of at least one inorganic compound which can be boron oxide and at least one organic polymeric layer. In these cases the use of an organic polymer usually increases the thickness of the insulating film and decreases the achievable maximum permeability of the material.

The main objective of the present invention is to produce a soft magnetic composite material with improved properties for applications in the low to medium frequency range 50 to 10 000 Hz . This normally implies the maximization of the material permeability and the minimization of its coercive field while maintaining a relatively high specific resistivity to minimize eddy current losses. A second objective of the present invention is to maximize the mechanical strength of the material measured by the transverse rupture strength test method TRS .

The present invention relates to ferromagnetic powders with an electrically insulating layer on iron particles intended for the manufacture of components having improved soft magnetic properties at low and medium frequencies. The invention comprises an iron powder with boron bearing compounds. The present invention also relates to a method of making these insulated ferromagnetic powders. The present invention further relates to a method of synthesizing a product made from insulated ferromagnetic powders via a post heat treatment at a moderate temperature 300 C. to 700 C. to form a glass like coating which acts as an electrical insulator. A preferred embodiment of the present invention is obtained when small amounts of alkali bearing compounds are added to the precursors to modify the coating chemistry and significantly increase the electrical resistivity after heat treatment.

More precisely the magnetic material used as a major element in this invention may be any ferromagnetic element such as the transition elements of group VIII e.g. Fe Ni Co and their alloys suitable for magnetic applications e.g. Fe Ni alloys Fe Si alloys Fe P alloys Fe Co alloys etc. . Considering availability and process cost a high purity iron powder is preferred. A high purity iron powder is characterized by a low content of interstitial residual elements. For instance the typical concentration of carbon oxygen sulfur and nitrogen found in these powders is carbon 0.005 oxygen 0.1 sulfur 0.005 and nitrogen 0.001 . ATOMET 1001HP manufactured by QMP is an example of such a high purity iron powder. This iron powder is coated with a boron bearing compound to synthesize a borate glass like network when heat treated. The main precursor used for this purpose is orthoboric acid HBO . However other compounds such as metaboric HBO acid tetra boric HBO acid ammonium tetraborate pentaborate and peroxyborate could also be used.

In the present invention addition of the alkali compounds is essential to modify the glass network and increase the resistivity of the resulting powder coating. Without being bound by this theory the inventors believe the alkali elements with their positive charge neutralize the natural ionic negative charge of the glass network. This neutralization is achieved for a limited range of molar proportions which is lower than about 15 . Above this level a positive ionic conductivity is created and resistivity of the coating decreases. All alkali elements such as lithium Li sodium Na potassium K rubidium Rb cesium Cs and francium Fr used alone or in combination can produce this neutralizing effect. The addition of these network modifiers is made using various sources of primary alkali compounds soluble in organic solvents and or water solution. Alkali hydroxides such as LiOH NaOH or KOH are good examples. However alkali salts including but not limited to alkali carbonate borate phosphate and silicate compounds such as NaCO sodium carbonate NaBO Borax NaHPO sodium phosphate or NaSiO sodium silicate may also be used alone or in any combination thereof.

The coating on the iron particles is produced using a wet coating process and can be realized either by solution spraying or complete immersion of the iron powder. In the present invention the solution spraying method is preferred. The precursor acid solution and the solution containing the alkali element compounds can be sprayed separately on the iron based powder in a mixing step or can be mixed together before spraying. Organic solvents such as ethanol methanol acetone isopropyl alcohol and glycerol can be used and typically the acid solutions are in concentration between 0.5 and 30 mass. The total quantity of solutions sprayed onto the iron particles is between 1 and 50 ml per kg of iron powder. The corresponding proportion of glass precursors with respect to iron is preferably lower than 0.3 and more preferably under 0.1 mass.

The solutions may also include a certain proportion of water when alkali compounds are not totally soluble in organic solvents. This addition of water improves the coating efficiency by increasing the dissociation constant of the solution thus increasing the acid and alkali elements reactivity with the iron powder. However the relative proportion of water in the organic solvent must be kept low to prevent any rust formation. A mixing time of between 5 and 90 minutes is applied in order to homogenize the coating thickness. The wet coated particles are then dried at low temperature below 200 C. at normal pressure or under a vacuum atmosphere in order to eliminate all traces of solvent thus leaving the dielectric coating on the surface of the particles.

The dry coated powder thus obtained is then mixed with a lubricant powder which may be any lubricant known for powder metallurgy applications. For example it can be selected from synthetic waxes amine based waxes metallic stearates polymeric lubricants or fatty acids. The preferred proportion is between 0.2 and 1 and more preferably between 0.3 and 0.7 as the amount of added lubricant limits the maximum achievable density. This lubricated powder mix is then compacted in a rigid die. Note that a minimum proportion of lubricant is required to avoid the degradation of the coating during the powder compaction step. The compacting temperature and pressure can be varied in order to achieve the desired part density. According to the present invention compacting pressures of up to 1 500 MPa can be used. Compacting pressures of between 300 and 1 000 MPa typically is applied with the tooling at room temperature though pressures between 400 and 1 000 MPa are preferred. The compaction can also be made in a heated rigid die in order to further increase the density. Preferably and more realistically the compaction pressures used are between 600 and 850 MPa and the temperature of the die is limited to 125 C.

Finally the obtained green parts or magnetic cores so called soft magnetic composites SMC are heat treated at a moderate temperature between 300 C. and 700 C. The thermal treatment duration may be adjusted in function of the final magnetic properties required for a given application but it lasts preferably between 5 and 60 minutes. Various atmospheres can be used to heat treat the parts such as inert gas atmospheres nitrogen argon and oxidizing atmospheres air oxygen mix hydrogen water vapor . The gas flow rate and other thermal treatment conditions may be varied to optimize the magnetic properties of the parts or the magnetic cores produced. Post heat treatment allows for complete or partial burnout of the lubricant in the parts a complete dehydration of the precursors and an in situ synthesis of the desired glass like composition. The main role of this glass is to efficiently insulate the iron particles from each other in order to minimize the eddy currents induced in the magnetic core when submitted to an oscillating field.

The iron powder used in this invention is preferably a high purity water atomized iron powder such as the ATOMET 1001HP produced by water atomization with a particle size distribution ranging from 5 m up to 250 m. For low frequency applications coarser iron powders such as ATOMET 580 with particles larger than 45 m may be used favorably in order to maximize permeability and reduce the material coercive field. In contrast higher frequency applications require finer powders such as ATOMET 545 with particles smaller than 45 m in order to further reduce eddy currents.

In a preferred formulation of this invention the major dielectric constituent of the coating is produced by the dehydration of boric acid HBO into boron oxide BO through thermal activation. This glass network former oxide coats and insulates the surface of the iron particles thus avoiding the circulation of eddy currents. In order to neutralize the ionic conductivity of this glass and to lower its glass transition temperature a small quantity of alkali compounds is added. For practical and economical reasons sodium borate NaBO is the preferred alkali compound. Many grades of NaBOcan be used the difference being mainly in the amount of water molecules coupled with the NaBO. Other types of alkali compounds can also be used with similar results as will be demonstrated in Example 2.

As illustrated in the following two examples the essence of the invention is in the optimization of the alkali elements additions in function of the various glass like insulating layers formed. The optimal effect of the alkali elements is obtained in a limited range of molar proportions. This range varies with the glass like network formed the alkali element used and its form e.g. salt hydroxide or other compound and the interaction between them when they are combined.

In this example the ferromagnetic powder used is the high purity ATOMET 1001 HP iron powder with a particle size ranging from 5 m up to 250 m. Two base solutions were prepared solution A containing 6 grams of boric acid HBO Borax Optibor grade in 100 ml of ethanol or 6 m v and solution B containing 3 grams of the alkali compound NaBO 10HO in 100 ml of water Borax Decahydrate or 3 m v .

From these base solutions four reaction solutions were prepared by combining 10 ml of solution A to 0 1 2 or 4 ml of solution B. Four coated iron powders or samples were prepared by mixing one kilogram of ATOMET 1001 HP iron powder with each of the reaction solutions 10 to 14 ml solution kg of iron . After coating the powders were dried at 100 C. for 60 minutes mixed with 0.5 Kenolube lubricant and pressed at 690 MPa into rectangular test bars 31.7 mm long 12.7 mm wide 6.35 mm thick and magnetic core rings 52.5 mm OD 43.6 mm ID 6.3 mm thick . These pressed SMC samples with density of about 7.25 g cm were heat treated at 500 C. for 30 minutes in air. The electrical resistivity of the bars was determined using a 4 point method DRM 40 micro ohmmeter from NDG Technologies and probe with 8 mm spaced electrodes .

As for all results presented herein magnetic properties were evaluated on heat treated ring samples using a MPG 1000 hysteresis graph from Brockhaus Messtechnik. A winding combination of 200 primary turns and 100 secondary turns was used to evaluate both the direct current DC properties at 12 000 A m and the AC core losses at 60 Hz and 400 Hz at a fixed induction of 1 Tesla.

Experimental conditions and results for these trials are reported in Table I. The electrical resistivity increases significantly with the addition of the alkali compound in the borate coating. In fact the resistivity obtained using boric acid alone is around 12 ohm m. When Na is added the resistivity increases up to 54 ohm m for a relative proportion of 10 of NaBOin boric acid as illustrated in . This gain in resistivity is important for AC applications as it results in a decrease of the losses mainly eddy current losses. For instance core losses at 400 Hz 1 T decrease from around 85 W kg when only boric acid is used down to an optimal value of about 60 W kg when the resistivity is maximized.

In this example it is demonstrated that good results can also be obtained by using other alkali compounds such as alkali phosphates and alkali silicates in which cases binary and ternary glass compositions are obtained. Different reaction solutions were prepared by mixing solution A containing 6 m v boric acid HBO in ethanol with various alkali 3 m v solutions such as NaBO 10HO from Borax NaO 3SiO from PQ Corporation or NaHPO 2HO from Fisher Scientific in water solutions named respectively solution B from Example 1 C and D. In the three types of coating Na is the alkali element B is the major glass former element and P or Si are minor glass modifiers which change slightly the structure of the borate glass network. The three formulations of coated iron powders were prepared by mixing one kilogram of ATOMET 1001 HP iron powder with 10 ml of the boric acid solution and 0 1 2 or 4 ml of each alkali solution. After coating the powders were dried at 100 C. for 1 hour mixed with 0.5 Kenolube lubricant and pressed as in the preceding example. Again the SMC bars were heat treated at 500 C. for 30 minutes in air. Physical properties and experimental conditions are summarized in Table I II and III.

Resistivity values as a function of the molar proportion of NaO in the glass like coating solutions are plotted in . The molar proportion of sodium maximizing the resistivity of the SMC varies from about 3 to 5 mole depending on the alkali compound type and glass network structure synthesized.

For each of the resulting borate phosphoborate and silicoborate glass like coating the optimal molar proportion of alkali element that maximizes the electrical resistivity was determined. These optimal compositions and their corresponding maximum resistivity values are given in Table IV. The sodium borate and silicoborate glass networks give a similar maximum resistivity 54 and 53 ohm m respectively while the phosphoborate glass network gives a resistivity significantly higher 69 ohm m . This is attributed to an improved thermal stability of the phosphoborate glass like coating.

In this example the variability of the process is demonstrated for an alkali borate glass coating formulation. For this purpose 20 samples of 500 g were prepared using ATOMET 1001 HP as the base iron powder and a wet coating process according to the following steps. Different base solutions were prepared 5 and 10 m v boric acid HBO Borax Optibor grade in ethanol and 2 and 5 m v of the alkali compound NaBO 5HO sodium tetraborate pentahydrate in water. The solutions were mixed together in different proportions and sprayed onto the iron powder and homogenized during 30 minutes in a laboratory blender. The coated powders were dried at 100 C. for one hour and mixed with 0.45 Kenolube. Rectangular bars and magnetic core rings were pressed at 690 or 830 MPa and heat treated at 500 C. for 30 minutes in air. Density transverse rupture strength and resistivity were measured on the rectangular bars while the magnetic properties were evaluated on the ring cores.

Table V presents the results obtained by coating the iron powder with various amounts of boric acid glass former and different proportions of sodium borate glass modifier . Globally the dielectric content increases from trial 11 to 26 from 0.04 up to 0.12 mass with the sodium tetraborate proportion varying between 0.003 up to 0.0125 with respect to the mass of iron powder.

These results illustrate the application limits of the invention. For instance the effect of the total dielectric content on the electrical resistivity and maximum permeability is illustrated in . The resistivity of the SMC parts increases with an increase of the dielectric content which is beneficial in terms of core loss when frequency increases e.g. at 400 Hz and 1 T but detrimental in terms of maximum permeability. This phenomenon is explained by the fact that magnetic permeability and electrical resistivity are determined by the conditions at the interfaces between iron particles. An increase in the coating thickness corresponds to an increase in the air gap between iron particles which decreases the magnetic permeability. This in turn minimizes the number of metal metal contacts and electrical resistivity of the composite material increases. The optimal composition of this invention is then a compromise between the achievable resistivity and maximum permeability. This optimum is achieved for a dielectric content between 0.08 and 0.10 with respect to the total amount of iron powder.

In order to illustrate the effect of the alkali addition in the borate coating comparative examples are given in which boric acid alone was used without alkali addition to coat the iron powder. These coated powders were produced from the four basic coating formulations of Table V. The experimental conditions and results obtained for these plain borate formulations are presented in Table VI.

The dielectric coating composition and thickness of the iron coated powders of trials 11 to 26 were determined using a PHI 5700 2 X ray Photoelectron Spectrometer XPS . Coated iron powders were dried 100 C. h and examined using a broad low energy resolution spectral acquisition survey in order to reveal the surface elemental composition of the first few atomic layers 2 nm . Half of the samples were also examined using the XPS high energy resolution spectral acquisition multiplex to determine the overall chemical composition specific elements . Finally the same samples were etched using an argon ion beam and examined in situ which provided elemental depth profiles and an evaluation of the approximate coating thickness.

Table VII summarizes the surface chemical analysis of the major elements forming the iron powder coating layer after drying at 100 C. h. Compared to the base iron powder AT 1001 HP which contains C O Mn and Fe mainly on its surface the coated iron powders also contain boron B and sodium Na in various proportions. As expected the amount of boron increases from 15 to 22 of the relative atomic percent with the increasing amount of dielectric deposited on the iron powder from trial 11 to 26 . The optimal glass coating composition is influenced by the O B ratio between 2.5 and 3.7 which represents the amount of boron network former element as well as the Na B ratio which corresponds to the proportion of alkali network modifier element in the borate glass typically between 0.02 and 0.13 .

In are plotted the effect of the surface composition of the coated powders on the resistivity and maximum permeability of SMC bars and rings heat treated at 500 C. 30 min in air data from Table V and Table VII . As expected the resistivity increases with an increase of the boron content but interestingly with a decreasing content and narrowing window of Na. In contrast the maximum permeability of the SMC material increases with a decrease of the boron content in the coating and an increasing content and narrowing window of Na .

These Figures also clearly show the range of properties achievable with the alkali borate coatings. For example at a level of 19 boron and a proportion of sodium corresponding to a Na B of 0.07 which seems to be an optimal compromise the SMC material resistivity should be between 40 and 60 ohm m and the maximum permeability between 400 and 410.

These variations in resistivity and permeability can be partly explained by the coating thickness deposited on the iron particles as represented in . In fact determining by XPS the elemental depth profile of boron through repetitive argon ion etching it can be observed that the coating thickness globally increases with the increasing amount of dielectric used. These thicknesses which vary between 30 nm and 90 nm from trial 13 to trial 24 give an idea of the potential minimum air gap between the iron particles. As mentioned previously this air gap strongly influences the final resistivity and permeability of the heat treated SMC materials. The addition of sodium in the borate glass would decrease its viscosity thus allowing a more uniform and thin coating to be formed during the heat treatment. This closer arrangement of the iron particles would maximize the material permeability but decrease the resistivity simultaneously.

To further illustrate the processability and the range of properties achievable with the SMC material developed a 50 lb batch of coated iron powder was produced using a laboratory blender dryer. A solution containing 255 ml of methanol 45 ml of demineralized water 1.8 g of sodium tetraborate NaBO 5HO and 19.2 g of boric acid HBO was prepared. The iron powder was homogenized sprayed with this solution blended for another 5 minutes and then dried under vacuum with the blender shell heated to 100 C. After drying 0.45 Kenolube lubricant was added to the coated iron powder and homogenized for 20 minutes. TRS bars and rings were pressed at room temperature and 690 MPa 50 tsi and heat treated at four different temperatures 350 450 500 and 525 C.

The chemical composition of the glasses formed at these four heat treatment temperatures was determined using XPS analyses on ruptured TRS bars. shows the evolution of the glass coating composition within the critical range of temperatures targeted by the present invention from 350 C. to 525 C. .

The composition of the coatings varies greatly for powders heat treated at temperatures below 450 C. and stabilizes at temperatures between 450 C. and 525 C. In fact at 350 C. the lubricant is not completely burned out and 76 of carbon can be found on the particle surfaces. As the heat treatment temperature increases the carbon level drops around 20 by an oxidation process which results in an increase of oxygen from 12 to 42 and an increase of iron from 3.6 to 22 . The boron level varies little over the entire heat treatment temperature range. The sodium from the coating and zinc from the lubricant contents increase up to temperatures of 450 C. where they then stabilize. Bridges of iron oxide FeO are then formed between the iron particles resulting in a significant decrease of resistivity and an increase of mechanical strength as shown in Table VIII and . A maximum TRS of 50 MPa is achieved at 450 C.

Furthermore the magnetic properties reported in Table VIII show that the formation of these bridges decreases the air gap between the iron particles thus increasing the maximum permeability of the SMC materials as shown in . Also at temperatures higher than 450 C. the extent of stress relief in the material improves and the coercive field drops significantly.

Core losses in function of the frequency of solicitation are plotted in . At low frequency the coercive field of the SMC material principally determines core losses as hysteresis phenomena are dominating. As frequency increases the resistivity becomes progressively more critical or important in order to minimize eddy currents. Thus SMC materials heat treated at a higher temperature will have the lowest core losses at 60 Hz lower coercive field while at 1000 Hz the SMC material with the highest resistivity 350 C. will have the lowest core losses.

The last two examples illustrate how the coating composition and the heat treatment temperature can be adjusted in order to minimize core losses at the targeted application frequency and or to maximize mechanical properties. However since resistivity and maximum permeability are interconnected by an inverse relationship not all desired combinations or properties are achievable. For example when pressed at 690 MPa 25 C. with 0.45 lubricant and heat treated at 500 C. for 30 minutes a permeability of 450 with a resistivity of 100 ohm m are not likely to be achieved see . Also since core losses at a certain frequency are influenced by the resistivity and the coercive field of the material the heat treatment temperature can be adjusted to find a compromise. However this adjustment as shown in does not necessarily maximize permeability and mechanical strength TRS at the same time. In fact these latter properties are limited to about 450 and 60 MPa respectively.

Contrary to most of the patented insulated ferromagnetic powders the insulated iron powders of the present invention contain a borate based coating layer and not a phosphate based coating layer such as those described in patent WO 97 30810 H ganas and U.S. Pat. No. 6 344 273. The insulating oxide layer of the present invention does not contain any phosphorous element other than the one already present in the base powder. When present as a minor constituent as in Example 2 where NaHPOis used as the alkali additive the P content is lower than 50 ppm which is below the values covered by patent WO 97 30810.

In the present invention alkali additives are also used as network modifiers to improve the insulation properties of the borate based coatings. This is different from U.S. Pat. No. 6 344 273 in which Mg Sn Mn Cd and Ca are also used as network modifiers but in phosphate based coatings. It is also different from U.S. Pat. No. 7 029 769 in which the glassy insulation film includes network former elements such as B P O and Fe and a second element that generates cations which are bivalent or more. In the present invention it has been found that monovalent alkali elements such as Na and K increase the resistivity of the borate glass coating principally constituted of carbon boron oxygen and iron. As shown in the resistivity achieved with such coated powders after heat treatment at 500 C. is adequate or high enough for low and medium frequency applications below 1 000 Hz .

In the present invention the total amount of dielectric in the coating layer is less than 0.2 wt with respect to the weight of iron powder. Such a thin insulation layer on the surface of the iron particles below 100 nm is required in order to maximize the magnetic permeability while keeping an adequate electrical insulation. This insulation coating is thus much thinner than in U.S. Pat. No. 6 756 118 where the total proportion of dielectric relative to the weight of powder metal is between 0.2 wt and 3 wt . Coatings become even thicker in cases where polymers are added in the SMC materials to increase the mechanical strength or the resistivity such as in U.S. Pat. No. 6 537 389 and WO 00 30835.

In the present invention the addition of oxygen containing chemicals such as boric acid alkali phosphate borate or silicate increases the amount of oxygen present in the insulated ferromagnetic powder. This is different than U.S. Pat. No. 6 348 265 where the oxygen content of the powder is at most 0.2 by weight.

While this invention has been described with specific reference to particular embodiments these embodiments are for the purpose of illustration only and are not intended as a limitation upon the scope of the following claims.

