---

title: Acoustic microelectromechanical viscometer
abstract: A rigid, planar, non-resonating boundary is introduced parallel to the surface of the piezoelectric resonator in a measurand chamber in order to both reduce the separation space (l) between the resonator and confining wall and confine the measurand fluid between those surfaces in order to reliably measure acoustic viscosity independently form the mass density (ρ) of the measurand fluid. The hypothesis is that when the penetration depth (δ) is comparable to the separation distance (l) between the resonator and the confining wall, then resonator perturbation is a sensitive function of the abbreviated separation space. Variations in the spacing between the resonator and confining wall are accomplished by adjusting the rigid, planar, non-resonating boundary, or confining wall, with a means for lateral movement. The ability to accurately adjust and control small spaces thereby enables MEMS versions of viscometers and associated types of fluid sensors.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08020432&OS=08020432&RS=08020432
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08020432
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090429
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured used imported sold and licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America without the payment to me of any royalty thereon.

This invention relates in general to field of solid state acoustic devices. In particular this invention relates to an acoustic micro electromechanical viscometer.

Several approaches for measuring fluid shear viscosities using quartz crystals have evolved since Quimby originated the technique of measuring solids by attaching them to a quartz crystal. The Quimby composite resonator QCR functions like a quartz crystal microbalance QCM in the limit where the measurand becomes a thin film and its elasticity is neglected. Mason first adapted the technique for measuring liquids and this method is still widely used. Stockbridge has also used quartz crystal techniques to measure gases. In these applications the crystal resonator is measured without and then with the loading of the measurand fluid. Ensuing changes can be recorded as changes in frequency phase or impedance level from which the unknown measurand properties can then be inferred.

Prior art devices have provided numerous equivalent electrical circuits that model the piezoresonator and describe the behavior of the piezoresonator when its surface is subjected to various loading conditions. The most popular equivalent electrical circuit is the Butterworth Van Dyke BVD network which consists of a capacitance C shunted by an R L and Cseries arm. The series arm is the manifestation of the piezoelectrically induced vibratory motion at a single isolated resonance. The BVD lumped circuit then evolved into the more elaborate broad band multi mode transmission line networks that place the mechanical boundary loadings and piezoelectric excitation mechanism in series at the surfaces. Current dynamic techniques for measuring fluid shear viscosities using quartz or other piezoelectrics rely upon exposing the resonator surface to a measurand tank whose extent greatly exceeds the penetration depth of the evanescent shear mode excited by the active element. This configuration allows the effect of the loading parameters to be expressed concisely. Perturbation of the electrical equivalent circuit parameters of the resonator by the fluid loading permits calculation of the mass density shear viscosity product but does not allow calculation of these quantities separately.

Referring now to the prior art measurand tank contains a shear wave piezoelectric transducer that is submerged in the measurand fluid . The piezoelectric transducer produces acoustic motion in the fluid and also senses the effect of that motion on the fluid . The waves at the top of fluid represent the fluid being a liquid however whenever the fluid is a gas those skilled in the art will appreciate that measurand tank can be equipped with a suitable lid and input and output valves. In all cases one or both surfaces of the piezoelectric resonator need to be in contact with the measurand fluid. Lord Rayleigh commenting on Stokes treatment of fluid viscosity wrote in 347 of his Theory of Sound Vol. 2 2nd revised edition 1896 The velocity of the fluid in contact with the plane is usually assumed to be the same as that of the plane itself on the apparently sufficient ground that the contrary would imply an infinitely greater smoothness of the fluid with respect to the solid than with respect to itself. This assumption is implicit throughout this document it means simply that the fluid immediately adjacent to a moving resonator surface has the same velocity as that surface and the fluid immediately adjacent to a motionless solid wall has zero velocity. An unbounded Newtonian fluid i.e. a fluid with shear viscosity in addition to the usual attributes of mass density and elastic stiffnesses cand c that is in intimate contact with a resonator surface of area A presents to the surface both shear S and longitudinal L impedances. These depend on angular frequency 2 f where f is the frequency in hertz.

Mechanical shear impedance is Z A j R j L where mechanical resistance Rrepresents shear dissipation and mechanical inductance Lmodels entrained mass loading. Penetration depth is 2 2 where is the acoustic wavelength. Longitudinal impedance is given by the formula R mechanical ohms A v A c where vis the longitudinal of acoustic waves in the fluid. This mechanical resistance represents energy radiating into the measurand fluid we neglect longitudinal viscosity. These impedances transformed by a piezoelectric factor appear in the BVD circuit in series with the R L and C1 branch. Thus immittance a word meaning either impedance or admittance and or frequency measurements on a resonator immersed in an unbounded fluid i.e. when the separation distance l from the resonator surface to a confining surface greatly exceeds the penetration depth yield only the longitudinal elastic stiffness c and Newtonian viscosity products.

Although prior art dynamic techniques for measuring fluid shear viscosities using quartz or other piezoelectrics and the equivalent circuits have proven to be quite beneficial they are still subject to a number of limitations based on the resonator surface being exposed to a measurand tank where the separation distance l between the resonator surface and the confining surfaces of the measurand tank greatly exceeds the penetration depth of the evanescent shear mode excited by the active element. There is currently no reliable way to measure the quantities viscosity and mass density separately. The shortcomings disadvantages and limitations of measuring the viscosity density product in such prior art measurements include inter alia the requirement for additional measurements of density. These additional measurements are not a part of an integrated measurement protocol and are made by other instruments in other setups leading to inaccuracies due to non simultaneity of measurements variations in temperature and other factors well known to those practiced in the art.

Thus there has been a long felt need for a means of obtaining both acoustic shear viscosity and density as separate quantities simultaneously and with the same apparatus. The present invention overcomes and obviates the shortcomings limitations and disadvantages of prior art measuring systems.

In an effort to satisfy the long felt need for measuring acoustic viscosity directly for many fluids and ambient conditions of interest this invention discloses the novel and utile advantages employing the unexplored regime where penetration depth of the fluid occupying the intervening region between the resonator and a confining wall is comparable in size to the separation distance l between the resonator and the confining wall. This regime is much more complicated than the traditional one of the resonator being exposed to a bath of fluid whose extent greatly exceeds the penetration depth . It is also more complicated both in the theoretical analysis and in the experimental realization of the conditions for operation. To explore these complexities and advantages this invention introduces a planar rigid boundary that is positioned parallel to the surface of the piezoelectric resonator in the measurand chamber in order to both reduce the separation space l between the resonator and confining wall and confine the measurand fluid between those surfaces in a new and innovative measuring arrangement. After making the separation distance l comparable to the penetration depth in this way it was found that the above quoted impedance formulas no longer applied due to separation distance l . Thus we have hypothesized that when the penetration depth is comparable to the separation distance l between the resonator and the confining wall that resonator perturbation is a sensitive function of the abbreviated separation space.

This important fact permits drastic miniaturization as an extremely advantageous concomitance since for gases between 200 K and 400 K pressures between 0.01 to 100 atm and frequencies f between 10 MHz and 1 GHz the penetration depth can vary from micrometers to nanometers. Variations in the spacing are effected by using a second non resonating piezoelectric or a device such as an inchworm apparatus for the boundary or confining wall. Such means for accurately adjusting and controlling small spaces are well known in the art. Micro electro mechanical MEMS versions of viscometers and associated types of fluid sensors are thereby enabled.

Based upon this relationship between a shortened separation distance l and resonator perturbation the present invention provides an acoustic micro electromechanical viscometer comprising a measurand chamber containing a piezoelectric resonator where the penetration depth in the fluid is comparable to the separation distance l between the resonator and a rigid planar non resonating boundary or confining wall. The rigid planar non resonating boundary also advantageously allows for adjustment of the separation space l .

Accordingly it is an object of the present invention to provide an acoustic viscometer within a measurand chamber containing a piezoelectric resonator one of whose surfaces is separated from a planar non resonant boundary by a separation distance l comparable to the penetration depth of the fluid.

It is another object of the present invention to provide an acoustic micro electromechanical viscometer within a measurand chamber containing a piezoelectric resonator one of whose surfaces is separated from a planar non resonant boundary by a separation distance l comparable to the penetration depth of the fluid.

It is still a further object of the present invention is to provide an acoustic micro electromechanical viscometer with a narrow and shallow measurand chamber containing a piezoelectric resonator one of whose surfaces is separated from a planar non resonant boundary by a separation distance l comparable to the penetration depth of the fluid.

It is yet another object of the present invention is to provide methods for measuring acoustic viscosity with an acoustic micro electromechanical viscometer containing a piezoelectric resonator one of whose surfaces is separated from a planar non resonant boundary by a separation distance l comparable to the penetration depth of the fluid.

These and other objects and advantages are provided by the present invention s acoustic micro electromechanical viscometer. This invention s acoustic micro electromechanical viscometer comprises a shear wave piezoelectric transducer a measurand chamber and a rigid planar non resonating piezoelectric boundary with the measurand chamber. The separation distance l between one surface of the resonator and the planar non resonant rigid boundary being is to the penetration depth of the fluid. In accordance with the present invention it is now possible to measure the acoustic viscosity properties of a measurand fluid without suffering from the disadvantages shortcomings and limitations of prior art measuring arrangements that were unable to reliably measure acoustic viscosity alone but only in combination with the mass density 

To appreciate the advantages of the present invention it is necessary better to understand some of the salient characteristics of piezoelectric crystal resonators and confined fluid loading. By reducing the fluid bath to a thin layer that separates the shear mode resonator from a rigid wall in the fluid bath the confinement in this way affects the evanescent shear wave in the fluid. Thus formulas relating fluid properties to the equivalent mechanical circuit values will now depend on the layer thickness l being normalized to the penetration depth or separation distance l . For the great majority of fluids and ambient conditions and frequencies of interest the penetration depth characterizing the evanescent shear wave of the measurand fluid ranges from micrometers to nanometers at the usual frequencies ordinarily employed. One needs to consider the effect of introducing a planar rigid boundary parallel to the surface of the piezoelectric resonator in order to confine the fluid therebetween. When the separation distance l that separates the resonator and boundary surfaces becomes comparable to the penetration depth then the surface of the resonator sees a complex mechanical admittance of 2 tan 2 . 1 The complex mechanical impedance is 1. 2 where the symbol j represents the square root of negative unity that is the imaginary operator. 

With the abbreviations w l and p shear conductance G w and reactance X w are 2 and 3 2 . 4 where g w and x w are dimensionless factors with the general form of a tan h function with superposed cyclic modulation and the symbol p is equal to the quotient . Referring now to the drawings is a chart illustrating the mechanical conductance function g w and is a chart illustrating the mechanical reactance function x w . The first three extrema of g w are 0.68111 at w 0.9375 0.49093 at w 2.347 and 0.050039 at w 3.929 g 0 0 and g . The first extremum of x w is 1.0178 at w 2.366 x 0 0 and x 1. At w 0 the slopes are dg 0 dw 1 and dx 0 dw . Similarly defined factors b w y w r w z w behave as follows for w

Now concerning viscosity and mass density when w1 provides the product. Similar results pertain to the use of longitudinal resonators to yield values of the compressional stiffness c directly. Because is usually very small MEMS miniaturization is a natural consequence of using the w

In order to describe the effect of having a rigid wall in close proximity to the surface of a shear wave piezoelectric resonator with the intervening space occupied by the fluid to be measured a mechanical analog circuit is employed. This device is well known in the art of modeling such systems. Specifically the fluid is represented by a short length of transmission line whose characteristic wave number and characteristic impedance have complex values thus describing the evanescent nature of the shear wave motion in the fluid. The end of the transmission line that represents the surface of the rigid wall is described by an open circuit. At the other end the transmission line immittance is attached to the piezoelectric resonator surface. This immittance gives rise to the Gand Xvalues described above by the application of simple circuit theory rules well known in the art and literature.

Referring now to the drawings is a conceptual top view of this invention s acoustic micro electromechanical viscometer comprising a resonator such as shear wave piezoelectric transducer submerged in a measurand chamber containing a measurand viscous fluid . The piezoelectric transducer is positioned in the measurand chamber at a predetermined separation distance l from a rigid planar non resonating boundary which can also function as a side wall where the separation distance l approximates the penetration depth of the shear wave in the measurand viscous fluid . The chamber also has a sealable lid which is not shown in this drawing. In accordance with the present invention the separation distance l can be adjusted by moving the rigid planar non resonating boundary with a means for lateral movement . The lateral movement means is depicted as a simple turn screw but it can be any mechanical or hydraulic arrangement that serves to move the non resonating piezoelectric boundary without disturbing the acoustic motion of the transducer . Measurements can be taken with a means for monitoring viscosity which could include a means for data processing or an appropriate meter. Peripheral equipment such as the resonator mounting structure electrodes and cables are well known to those skilled in the art and are not shown in these drawings.

The shear wave piezoelectric resonator produces acoustic motion in the measurand viscous fluid and also senses the effects of the acoustic motion on that fluid . In accordance with the present invention when the resonator is driven at a selected frequency an evanescent shear mode wave is generated in the measurand viscous fluid that causes a mechanical admittance and a mechanical impedance in a thin fluid layer between the resonator and boundary allowing the monitoring means to measure given viscosity independently from the given mass density at an increased level of accuracy.

It should be noted that this invention s measurand chamber is configured to allow adjustment of the predetermined separation distance l through lateral movement of the rigid planar non resonating boundary and that these features are essential elements of this invention that are unknown in prior art measurand tanks.

A number of variations of this invention s acoustic micro electromechanical viscometer are possible such as the resonator being a piezoelectric resonator the boundary being another resonator the other resonator being driven at an identical frequency to the selected frequency with either a phase advancement or retardation. The resonator could also be a piezomagnetic resonator. Other variations include numerous shapes and sizes for the driving mechanism such as a flexural mode cantilever i.e. diving board shape containing a pattern of one a few or many tiny holes through the thickness with the holes having apertures with diameters that are comparable to the penetration depth . By executing flexural motion like a diving board the fluid would be forced through the openings back and forth with each flap of the cantilever. The mathematics would be much more difficult than the present instance but the concept is the same fluid confined in a space of dimension having the general size of the penetration depth in the fluid. Additionally a cantilever having holes of varying sizes e.g. a diving board that looks like a narrow slice of Swiss cheese could be used for various fluids of different viscosities.

In order to display the range and generality of the present invention Tables I through V are included. These demonstrate that for a representative sample of fluids the penetration depth at frequencies ordinarily employed for viscosity measurements is generally on the order of micrometers. The sample fluids include both liquids and gases. The present invention is thus inherently sub miniature and in line with the generally construed appellation MEMS or micro electro mechanical. 

Rayleigh p. 313 of the 2 2nd revised edition remarks Both by theory and experiment the remarkable conclusion has been established that within wide limits the force viscosity is independent of the density of the gas. Tables I and II contain values of pertinent acoustic properties of argon at 200 K 2.125 10Pa s and hydrogen at 400 K 1.0867 10Pa s . In these tables and those below the values are for a frequency of 1 MHz. The formula for penetration depth is 2 and thus varies as the reciprocal of the square root of the frequency for a frequency of 10 MHz the tabular entries for would be smaller by a factor of 10 3.16.

We have considered Newtonian fluids subjected to shear motion in the limit where the distance to a confining rigid wall is comparable to the penetration depth. It is found that the immittance seen at the face of the shear transducer and reflected in the transducer equivalent electrical circuit values permits direct determination separately of the viscosity and mass density. The smallness of the penetration depth in most applications is such that extreme miniaturization is thereby enabled.

Referring back to the present invention also encompasses a method for measuring acoustic viscosity of a measurand viscous fluid independently from the density of the viscous fluid comprising the steps of forming a measurand chamber filling the chamber with the measurand viscous fluid the viscous fluid having a given penetration depth a given viscosity and a given mass density configuring the chamber with a rigid planar non resonating boundary a means for lateral movement to adjust the boundary and a sealable lid not shown in this drawing positioning a means for generating an acoustic wave having at least one surface inside the chamber parallel to the boundary and calculating a predetermined separation distance l between the boundary and the surface of the acoustic wave generating means that is comparable to the given penetration depth. The steps of the method continue with setting the boundary at the predetermined distance between the boundary and the acoustic wave generating means providing a thin layer of the viscous fluid between the surface and the boundary connecting a means for monitoring viscosity to the chamber driving the acoustic wave generating means at a selected frequency to generate an evanescent shear mode wave in the viscous fluid causing a mechanical admittance and a mechanical impedance in the thin layer and allowing the monitoring means to measure the given viscosity independently from the given mass density at an increased level of accuracy.

It is to be further understood that other features and modifications to the foregoing detailed description are within the contemplation of the present invention which is not limited by this detailed description. Those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that any number of configurations of the present invention and numerous modifications and combinations of materials components arrangements and dimensions can achieve the results described herein without departing from the spirit and scope of this invention. Accordingly the present invention should not be limited by the foregoing description but only by the appended claims.

