---

title: Plasma membrane biomarkers preferentially expressed in pancreatic beta cells useful in imaging or targeting beta cells
abstract: The present invention is directed to the identification of a biomarker specifically located in the plasma membrane of pancreatic beta cells. It was selected by a Systems Biology approach on Massively Parallel Signal Sequencing datasets obtained in human islets and Affymetrix microarray datasets on human islets, purified rat primary beta and non beta cells and insulinoma cells. Based on a set of specific features the biomarker is a unique candidate for imaging and targeting strategies to study the pancreatic beta cell mass in health and disease (T1 D, T2D, pancreatic cancers, obesity, islet transplantation, beta cell regeneration). The five specific features of the selected biomarkers are: 1) Preferentially expressed in pancreatic islets as compared to surrounding tissues; 2) Higher expression in pancreatic beta cells than in pancreatic alpha cells or than in other islet non-beta cells; 3) Expression levels in pancreatic beta cells are higher or comparable to glucokinase which is an enzyme specifically expressed in the pancreatic beta cell; 4) Located in the membrane and as such targetable with antibodies, peptides or small molecules which allows imaging, targeting and immunohistochemistry; and 5) Expression is not induced during the process of inflammation of the beta cell mass and the protein is not enriched in T-cells and dendritic cells or in other cells participating in the inflammation process.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08425878&OS=08425878&RS=08425878
owner: Universite Libre de Bruxelles
number: 08425878
owner_city: Brussels
owner_country: BE
publication_date: 20090213
---
This patent application is the national phase entry of PCT EP2009 051721 filed Feb. 13 2009 and published in English as PCT International Publication WO 2009 101181 A2 on Aug. 20 2009 and claims priority under Article 8 of the Patent Cooperation Treaty and under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. provisional patent application No. 61 066 068 filed Feb. 14 2008.

This work was supported by the US Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation Grant JDRF 4 2001 43. The Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation may have certain rights in this invention.

The present invention is directed to the medical field in particular to the imaging and quantification of pancreatic beta cell mass targeting or visualization of pancreatic beta cells for pathology and or diagnosis of diabetic disorders follow up of islet transplantation and to purification strategies of pancreatic beta cells.

The current global prevalence of diabetes mellitus is approximately 170 million affected individuals and recent projections suggest this will increase to 300 million worldwide by 2025. More than 30 million individuals are affected in Europe. The majority around 85 of patients have type 2 diabetes mellitus T2D while some 10 15 of the patients suffer from type 1 diabetes mellitus T1D . Diabetes causes severe long term complications and psychosocial problems imposing a heavy burden of morbidity and premature mortality. Diabetes is the leading cause of blindness and visual disability limb amputation end stage renal failure and neuropathy. It is associated with a greatly increased incidence of cardiovascular disease including stroke myocardial infarction and heart failure. Cardiovascular disease accounts for more than 50 of all deaths among diabetic patients in Europe. Because T2D is increasingly prevalent and developing earlier in life increasing the duration of the disease by decades many more people are developing severe diabetic complications and suffering decreases their life quality and expectancy.

Diabetes incurs many costs and is particularly expensive because it is life long and causes major medical problems. These costs include direct costs from physician and nursing services hospital services laboratory services drugs education and training of the patients and indirect costs from time lost from work chronic nursing and general socio economic support early retirement protracted morbidity and premature mortality.

Overall costs of diabetes mellitus comprising both direct and indirect costs have been calculated in various countries and are enormous. For instance the cost of treating one patient over a 25 year period is in the range of 100 000 200 000 EURO. The present invention by improving early detection and aiding in the development of novel therapies to prevent and or revert diabetes will fulfill an enormous unmet need opening excellent opportunities for the health care industry and for companies involved in medical imaging production and distribution of tracers for imaging.

The pancreas an organ about the size of a hand is located behind the lower part of the stomach. It comprises two structures that are both morphologically and physiologically different the exocrine pancreas which produces the enzymes involved in digestion amylase lipase etc. and sodium bicarbonate and the endocrine pancreas which produces the hormones involved in the control of blood glucose insulin glucagon somatostatin and pancreatic polypeptide . The cells of the endocrine pancreas are organized as micro organs dispersed in the pancreas in the form of islets islets of Langerhans or pancreatic islets . Each pancreatic islet is made up of 4 cell types alpha cells beta cells delta cells and PP cells. The alpha cells are located at the periphery of the islet and secrete glucagon. The beta cells are found at the center of the islet and are the only cells capable of secreting insulin in response to glucose. The delta cells are at the periphery and secrete somatostatin. The function of the PP cells is more controversial synthesis of pancreatic polypeptide .

Insulin is a hormone that helps the body use glucose for energy. Diabetes develops when the body doesn t make enough insulin cannot use insulin properly or both causing glucose to build up in the blood. In type 1 diabetes mellitus T1D an autoimmune disease the beta cells of the pancreas no longer make insulin because the body s immune system has attacked and destroyed them. A person who has T1D must take insulin daily to live. Type 2 diabetes mellitus T2D usually begins with a condition called insulin resistance in which the body has difficulty using insulin effectively. Over time insulin production declines as well so many people with T2D eventually need to take insulin.

In addition a condition called hyperinsulinemia occurs in patients with increased beta cell populations when compared to healthy subjects. Patients with hyperinsulinemia are at high risk of developing seizures mental retardation and permanent brain damage. Since glucose is the primary substrate used by the CNS unrecognized or poorly controlled hypoglycemia may lead to persistent severe neurologic damage. Transient hyperinsulinemia is relatively common in neonates. An infant of a diabetic mother an infant who is small or large for gestational age or any infant who has experienced severe stress may have high insulin concentrations. In contrast congenital hyperinsulinemia is rare.

Among the treatments for diabetes besides the regular administration of insulin one of the approaches for the physiological control of glycemia and for normalization of glycemia in diabetics is to restore insulin secretion in vivo from cells. Several strategies have been proposed xenotransplantation of insulin producing cells from animals in vitro differentiation of isolated stem cells into insulin secreting cells and re implantation thereof in the patient or allotransplantation of isolated pancreatic islets from another subject.

The lack of a cellular model for studying the beta cells and also the lack of reliable and effective means of cell sorting suitable for this type of cells hinder the study of beta cell functioning and therefore the development of novel methods of treatment of type I and II diabetes.

The current attempts of imaging pancreatic beta cell mass are being done either by using MRI magnetic resonance imaging or by using PET positron emission tomography and SPECT single photon emission computed tomography . In vivo imaging of beta cell mass needs a combination of very high sensitivity and high spatial resolution. MRI has the best spatial resolution but its major problem is the ex vivo labeling procedure and its semi quantitative nature. MRI has been successfully used by labeling of human islets with SPIO small particles of iron oxide ex vivo and subsequent islet transplantation Evgenov et al 2006 . Using this approach it was possible to follow up the grafted beta cell mass up to 6 months after transplantation. This technique is however only usable for transplantation since it relies on ex vivo uptake of the marker by islet cells and can not be used for in vivo imaging of beta cells in the pancreas. MRI was also used for tracking recruitment of diabetogenic CD8 T cells into the pancreas Moore A et al 2004 for detecting apoptosis in T1D progression using a Cy5.5 labeled annexin 5 probe Medarova Z. et al 2006 or for detection of micro vascular changes in T1D progression Medarova Z. et al 2007 but the changes detected are semi quantitative.

PET and SPECT have very high sensitivity and do not require ex vivo labeling. On the other hand these techniques have a lower spatial resolution as compared to MRI. PET or SPECT imaging is achieved using islet specific receptor binding compounds or using compounds taken up specifically by transporters in the pancreatic islets labeled with radioactive tracers. Almost all current substrates used for beta cell PET SPECT imaging bind or are taken up by the non beta cells and in some cases even by exocrine cells in the pancreas. This results in dilution of tracer and high backgrounds making it currently impossible to quantify the beta cells which are scattered over the pancreas in tiny islets 100 300 m diameter constituting only 1 2 of the total pancreas mass. This indicates the urgent need of identification of beta cell specific plasma membrane proteins which can be used for imaging or targeting.

The team of Paul Harris identified 35 islet tissue restricted transmembrane and membrane associated molecules by comparing microarray datasets obtained in human islets versus exocrine cells Maffei et al 2004 . One candidate vesicular monoamine transporter 2 VMAT2 was selected for additional studies on imaging pancreatic beta cell mass using the specific ligand DTBZ. It was recently shown however that total eradication of beta cells still resulted in VMAT2 binding showing that DTBZ is not a good biomarker for imaging pancreatic beta cell mass Kung et al 2007 .

One of few beta cell specific membrane proteins identified up to now is the zinc transporter ZnT8 or SLC30A8 Chimienti F et al 2004 Seve et al 2004 . ZnT8 co localizes with insulin in the pancreatic beta cells Chimienti et al 2006 . Avalon EP1513951 and WO03097802 and CEA patent US2006246442 EP1563071 and WO2004046355 introduced patents on the fact that this protein was beta cell specific and on the usage of an antibody against SLC30A8 or ZnT8 for cancer therapy and for use in antibody test.

Recently SLC30A8 was identified as an autoantigen and the target of autoantibodies in type 1 diabetes Wenzlau J M et al. 2007 and it is therefore not useful for beta cell detection.

The company Biogen IDEC identified Kirrel 2 filtrin or NEPH3 an immunoglobulin superfamily gene which is specifically expressed in the beta cells of pancreatic islet cells Sun C. et al 2003 and in kidney Rinta Valkama J et al 2007 . Due to its very low expression levels this candidate is not useful for beta cell detection. Recently it was shown that densin and filtrin can act as auto antigens and auto antibodies against these are detected in T1D patients Rinta Valkama J et al 2007 . However this candidate was too low expressed to be of use in beta cell detection.

Tmem27 or collectrin was identified as a beta cell protein that stimulates beta cell proliferation Fukui K et al 2005 and which is cleaved and shed from the plasma membrane. It was not retained in our biomarker list since its expression is higher in the islet non beta cells than in the beta cells.

The free fatty acid receptor GPR40 also called FFAR1 is a G coupled receptor recently identified as islet specific and as a possible target for treatment of T2D Bartoov Shifman R et al 2007 . It was recently suggested to be a possible candidate biomarker for imaging pancreatic beta cells. This receptor however is expressed both in islet beta cells and in alpha cells Flodgren E et al 2007 hampering its potential as a good beta cell biomarker.

The fatty acid receptor GPR119 was identified as a beta cell specific receptor Frederiksson R et al 2003 Chu et al 2007 and oleoylethanolamide OEA lysophosphatidylcholine LPC activated GPR119 is involved in glucose induced insulin secretion. Whether or not these metabolite receptors reach sufficiently high concentrations on the outer surface of the plasma membrane to image the beta cell mass needs to be determined Madiraju S R et al 2007 . GPR119 was identified recently in islet non beta cells Sakamoto Y et al 2006 and the selective small molecule GPR119 agonist PSN632408 suppressed food intake reduced body weight gain and white adipose tissue deposition Overton H A et al 2006 showing that GPR119 is expressed in other tissues.

A random phage displayed 20 mer peptide library was screened on freshly isolated rat islets but none of the selected peptides were selectively enough in binding to the islets versus other tissues to be used for imaging Samli K N et al 2005 .

PET imaging teams working on pancreas are also attempting to image beta cells. For this purpose they are using compounds assumed to selectively bind or being taken up by islet specific transporters and receptors. Examples of these compounds include glibenclamide tolbutamide serotonin L DOPA dopamine nicotinamide fluorodeoxyglucose and fluorodithizone. Glibenclamide and fluorodithizone are not specific enough to attain the robust signal to background ratio needed for quantification of beta cell mass via PET imaging. F deoxy glucose FDG could not be used to successfully quantify beta cell mass Malaisse W J et al. 2000 Ruf J et al. 2006 Nakajo M. et al. 2007 but could be used to discriminate between focal and diffuse hyperinsulinism de Lonlay P et al 2005 and 2006 Otonkoski T et al 2006 Kauhanen S et al 2007 Ribeiro M J et al 2007 Hardy O T. et al 2007 .

The most promising compounds used up to now to image pancreatic beta cells are F18 DOPA and Dihydrotetrabenazine DTBZ both substrates taken up by the VMAT2 transporter Souza F. et al 2006 Simpson N R. et al. 2006 and Glucagon like peptide 1 GLP 1 or exendin ligands binding to the GLP 1 receptor Gotthardt M. et al 2002 Wild M. et al. 2006 . Unfortunately all the compounds mentioned above result in too high background levels and non specific binding to various other intra abdominal tissues such as kidney and liver.

As described above the team of Paul Harris identified vesicular monoamine transporter 2 VMAT2 and its ligand DTBZ as potential tools for beta cell imaging. DTBZ was labeled with C 11 and F 18 and a high pancreatic uptake was obtained in rodents and primates Souza et al 2006 . Unfortunately complete eradication of beta cells reduced the pancreatic uptake of DTBZ by only 30 40 showing that the compound lacks sufficient specificity for the beta cells Kung et al 2007 to enable its use to assess beta cell mass.

Several auto antibodies directed against insulin K14D10 sulfatide 102 glutamic acid decarboxylase GAD or protein tyrosine phosphatase IA2 have been identified. The team of Ian Sweet used a beta cell specific antibody K14D10 and its Fab fragment for imaging targeting beta cells but the antibody fragment with the best blood clearance failed to preferentially accumulate in the pancreas. The monoclonal antibody IC2 Brogren C H et al 1986 Buschard K et al 1988 modified with a radioisotope chelator for nuclear imaging showed highly specific binding and accumulation to beta cells with virtually no binding to exocrine pancreas or stromal tissues Moore A et al 2001 . Sulfatide however is also expressed in islet cell innervating Schwann cells and other neural tissues which may hamper its use in beta cell imaging.

Consequently there is a lack of specific and reliable markers for the beta cells of pancreatic islets of Langerhans and do not allow reliable beta cell mass quantification. One of the aims of the present invention is to provide such markers.

Our candidates are specific for beta cells and can be used for beta cell specific targeting and non invasive imaging. They are not induced by inflammation and are not expressed in pancreas surrounding tissues. The use of targeting strategies against these biomarkers will allow early identification of loss in beta cell mass and the follow up of therapies for diabetes including islet transplantation attempts at beta cell regeneration etc.

The present invention is directed to a group of biomarkers located in the plasma membrane of pancreatic beta cells. They were selected by a Systems Biology approach on Massively Parallel Signal Sequencing datasets obtained in human islets and Affymetrix microarray datasets on human islets purified rat primary beta and non beta cells and insulinoma cells. Based on a set of specific features these biomarkers are unique candidates for imaging and targeting strategies to study the pancreatic beta cell mass in health and disease T1D T2D pancreatic cancers or islet transplantation .

1 Preferentially expressed in pancreatic islets as compared to surrounding tissues total pancreas exocrine tissue liver intestine spleen stomach 

2 Higher expression in pancreatic beta cells than in pancreatic alpha cells or than in other islet non beta cells

3 Expression levels in pancreatic beta cells are higher or comparable to glucokinase which is an enzyme specifically expressed in the pancreatic beta cell

4 Located in the membrane and as such targetable with antibodies peptides or small molecules which allows imaging targeting and immunohistochemistry

5 Expression is not induced during the process of inflammation of the beta cell mass and the protein is not enriched in T cells and dendritic cells or in other cells participating in the inflammation process.

Imaging targeting strategies using labeled antibodies aptamers interacting proteins or ligands directed against these biomarkers will allow beta cell specific mass quantification evaluate the progression of diabetes pancreatic cancer and will lead to earlier prediction of pancreatic disease state allow earlier intervention and higher chance to cure or halt diabetes and enable the follow up of beta cell mass following islet transplantation.

The biomarkers of the invention can also be potential targets for autoimmunity in T1D as is the case of other abundant beta cell surface proteins and may thus be a target for auto antibodies. Detection of these auto antibodies may allow prediction of T1D.

Another application of the biomarkers of the invention will be the follow up of beta cell mass in patients with type 1 and type 2 diabetes and following islet transplantation. Beta cell imaging will be also useful as a surrogate marker for clinical trials of new therapies aiming to prevent beta cell mass loss in diabetes or to restore beta cell mass by regeneration. The biomarkers could also be targeted to deliver agents to stop inflammation in the case of T1D or transplantation.

The invention therefore provides for the use of a marker selected from the group consisting of FXYD2 gamma a FXYD2 gamma b and FXYD2 gamma c for specifically measuring pancreatic beta cell mass. In a preferred embodiment said marker is FXYD2 gamma a.

In an alternative embodiment the invention provides a method for measuring pancreatic beta cell mass comprising the steps of 

a visualizing the beta cells in a sample using a labelled molecule specifically binding to one or more FXYD2 gamma isoform s such as FXYD2 gamma a FXYD2 gamma b and or FXYD2 gamma c 

In a further embodiment use of a binding molecule specifically binding to one or more FXYD2 gamma isoform s such as FXYD2 gamma a FXYD2 gamma b and or FXYD2 gamma c in the preparation of a diagnostic composition for the in vivo diagnosis of pancreatic beta cell related disorders. In a preferred embodiment said marker is FXYD2 gamma a.

In another embodiment the invention provides for a method of in vivo diagnosing a beta cell related disorder encompassing the following steps 

a introducing an isotopically labelled tracer molecule specifically binding to one of the markers selected from the group consisting of FXYD2 gamma a FXYD2 gamma b and FXYD2 gamma c into a subject 

b visualizing the tracer molecule specifically located to the beta cell population in the pancreas using PET PET CT or SPECT in vivo 

d comparing of the beta cell mass data obtained in step c with the beta cell mass of a healthy subject 

e diagnosing the subject as having diabetes or being at risk of having diabetes when the level of beta cell mass obtained in step c is reduced as compared to that of a healthy subject and diagnosing the subject as having hyperinsulinemia or being at risk of having hyperinsulinemia when the level of beta cell mass obtained in step c is increased as compared to that of a healthy subject. In a preferred embodiment said marker is FXYD2 gamma a.

Preferably the beta cell related disorder analyzed in any of the methods of the invention is type 1 diabetes mellitus type 2 diabetes mellitus hyperinsulinemia or pancreatic cancer.

Alternatively the invention further provides for a kit for specifically measuring beta cell mass and or for diagnosing a beta cell related disorder and or for purifying beta cells in a subject comprising 

a a labelled molecule binding to any one of the biomarkers selected from the group consisting of FXYD2 gamma a FXYD2 gamma b and FXYD2 gamma c. In a preferred embodiment said marker is FXYD2 gamma a.

In any of the methods of the invention the binding molecule preferably is a specific antibody antibody fragment nanobody affybody an aptamer a photoaptamer a small molecule an interacting partner a specifically binding protein or peptide a Darpin an ankyrin an isotopically labelled tracer or a ligand specifically binding to said biomarker.

In a preferred embodiment the antibody is directed against the FXYD2 gamma a b or c biomarker even more preferably the antibody is directed to any one of the peptides of SEQ ID NO 1 5 preferably of SEQ ID NO 1 3 more preferably of SEQ ID NO 1.

The invention further provides for a method for following up the success of the transplantation of beta cells in a subject comprising the following steps 

a measuring the amount of beta cell mass in the subject in a certain period of time after transplantation of the subject with pancreatic islets.

b determining the success of the islet transplantation by comparing the beta cell mass in the course of time

Alternatively the invention provides for a method for purifying or isolating beta cells from other pancreatic non beta cells comprising the following steps 

a tagging the beta cells with a labelled binding molecule specifically directed to one of the markers selected from the group consisting of FXYD2 gamma a FXYD2 gamma b and FXYD2 gamma c 

b isolating the labelled cells from the non labelled cells through the tag on the beta cells thereby obtaining a substantially pure beta cell preparation. In a preferred embodiment said marker is FXYD2 gamma a.

In a further embodiment the invention provides for a method for identification of regeneration of beta cells comprising the steps of 

a tagging the beta cells with a labelled binding molecule specifically directed to one of the markers selected from the group consisting of FXYD2 gamma a FXYD2 gamma b and FXYD2 gamma c 

b isolating the labelled cells from the non labelled cells through the tag on the beta cells thereby obtaining a substantially pure regenerated beta cell preparation

c performing immunohistochemistry to identify the number of newly regenerated beta cells and to define the new beta cell mass follow up op therapeutic strategies and detect beta cell mass recovery. In a preferred embodiment said marker is FXYD2 gamma a.

The tags used in the above methods could be magnetic beads or paramagnetic beads. The beta cell mass could then be measured using MRI.

Further the invention provides for a method for identification of stem cell populations in order to derive functional insulin expressing cells comprising the steps of 

a tagging the treated stem cells with a labeled binding molecule specifically directed to one of the markers FXYD2 gamma a FXYD2 gamma b and FXYD2 gamma c and

b isolating the labeled cells from the non labeled cells through the tag on the potential beta stem cells thereby obtaining a substantially pure beta stem cell preparation. In addition this method can further comprise the steps of c performing immunohistochemistry to identify the number of beta stem cells and to define the new beta cell mass and d follow up op therapeutic strategies and detect newly formed beta cell mass. In a preferred embodiment said marker is FXYD2 gamma a.

In another embodiment the invention also provides for a method for identifying specific biomarkers for pancreatic beta cells comprising the selection of such a marker based on the following 5 criteria 

b enriched in purified rat beta cells compared to purified rat non beta cells making them relatively beta cell specific 

d located in the plasma membrane and can be used for targeting with specific antibodies or with peptides and

Preferably the expression data obtained is derived through MPSS and or gene expression mRNA microarray technology.

In addition the invention also provides new markers identified by the methods of the invention such as FXYD2 gamma a FXYD2 gamma b and FXYD2 gamma c. In a preferred embodiment said marker is FXYD2 gamma a.

Finally the invention also provides for the use of one or more markers selected from the group consisting of GNAS XLas GNAS Alex CDIPT VAT1 CLSTN1 SLC7A5 CTTN BAIAP3 LYPD1 ANXA7 DMBT1 KIAA1543 and SLC7A8 for specifically measuring pancreatic beta cell mass or for use in any one of the methods kits and uses as described in the present invention wherein the FXYD2 gamma marker s can be replaced by any one or more other marker s of said group of markers or wherein any one or more of the markers of said list can be used in combination with the FXYD2 gamma marker s .

The present invention is directed to a group of biomarkers specifically located in the plasma membrane of pancreatic beta cells. They were selected by a Systems Biology approach on Massively Parallel Signal Sequencing datasets obtained in human islets and Affymetrix microarray datasets on human islets purified rat primary beta and non beta cells and insulinoma cells. Massively parallel signature sequencing MPSS generates millions of short signature sequence tags from the 3 regions of mRNA samples the majority of which can be unambiguously assigned to individual genes with the number of tags present for each gene being a digital readout of corresponding mRNA abundance. Because individual cells contain an estimated 200 000 300 000 transcripts sampling at this level approaches the complete cataloging of all different mRNA species expressed in a cell line or tissue. Comparison of MPSS data sets derived from different tissues provides a powerful means of defining tissue specific gene expression.

Our selected candidates are not only specific for pancreatic islets versus exocrine tissue but we added a number of extra selection criteria which makes our candidates better for the use as beta cell imaging and targeting. We used unique datasets containing quantitative information instead of comparative information to select the biomarkers. The unique features assigned to our selected biomarkers are 

1. Selected biomarker candidates are enriched more than 50 100 times in human islets versus total human pancreas Instead of using comparative data obtained by micro array we have quantitative data obtained by MPSS which gives the number of transcripts per million this allows us to calculate how much a transcript is enriched in human islets versus total human pancreas. Since islets constitute 1 2 of the total pancreas we used as selection criteria an enrichment of 50 100 times in islets versus pancreas. Using the quantitative data we can calculate how many times the expression will be enriched in human pancreatic islets versus the surrounding human tissues stomach spleen intestine or versus tissues used for placing islet grafts liver kidney based on comparison with publicly available human MPSS datasets this is a very useful criteria for anticipating background levels and for selecting islet specific candidates. The enrichment in islets versus total pancreas is preferably higher than 50 fold.

2. Selected candidates are enriched in purified rat beta cells compared to purified rat non beta cells making them relatively beta cell specific. The islet composition changes during the evolution of T1D due to loss of beta cells and the relative increase in non beta cells mostly alpha cells . It is thus crucial for quantification of beta cell mass that putative biomarkers are specifically expressed in beta cells. The present selection was done based on our unique data set obtained with microarrays performed on purified primary beta cells compared to purified primary non beta cells. Until now no such selection has been done. The term enriched means that a higher level of expression is obtained in beta cells when compared to non beta cells manipulated under identical conditions. As this analysis is done based on microarray data analysis the FC change is not taken in account f.e. some probes for FXYD2 are not so good rat microarray as compared to previous data in human and give here a FC of 1.4 On the other hand some probesets f.e. GNAS probes score very high comparable to insulin and there again FC will be 1.3 so we selected genes that were higher expressed in beta cells than in non beta cells but no FC criteria was set as such.

3. The selected biomarkers are expressed at a level at least as high as but preferably higher than the expression level of glucokinase. For imaging the targets need to be expressed in sufficient amount on the pancreatic beta cells to enable detection. We have both quantitative data in human islets and comparative data in human islets and primary rat beta cells to check this criterion this is done by comparison with glucokinase a moderately expressed enzyme in the beta cells.

4. The selected biomarkers are located in the plasma membrane and can be used for targeting with specific antibodies chemical synthesis natural compounds or with peptides. Antibodies and peptides targeting these proteins detect native structures located on the plasma membrane proteins with an affinity high enough to perform imaging targeting. The localization in the plasma membrane was assessed by a Systems Biology approach IPA analysis GO analysis literature screening and we perform immunohistochemistry to confirm this localization.

5. The expression level of the selected genes proteins is not substantially modified e.g. induced during inflammation We have a large amount of microarray data comparing control condition to conditions in which inflammation is induced e.g. cytokine treated or virus or dsRNA exposed beta cells . During inflammation pancreatic beta cells often express similar markers as those found in immune cells T cells dendritic cells infiltrating in the pancreas. It is thus of major importance to select biomarkers exclusively expressed in the beta cells and not induced during inflammation in order to quantify beta cell mass. By comparison of our microarray datasets with the publicly available Symatlas we could confirm these data. This analysis was not done previously by other groups. Via literature screening we detected expression in normal human pancreas compared to different types of pancreatic cancer and their expression in NOD mice T1Dmouse model versus control mice. If not available in literature we checked this in mouse TME specially made to clarify this issue. The term not substantially modified e.g. induced means that the expression level of the candidate marker is not induced in inflammatory versus non inflammatory conditions. This is to counter the possible effect of inflammation increasing the expression in an equal amount of decrease in beta cell mass due to a disease condition such as diabetes. i.e. if the decrease in beta cell mass in diabetic conditions would be about 30 and the marker as such has an increased expression of about 30 due to inflammation condition this would not allow to detect changes in beta cell mass based on said marker .

Next a procedure was developed to analyze the three best candidates of our list at the protein level and to confirm islet and beta cell specificity. For the candidates we selected antibodies if available or prepared antibodies specifically targeting the biomarkers. The selected candidates and the antibodies targeting these candidates were tested in human tissue microarrays confirming their specificity for pancreas versus surrounding tissues and their specific expression in pancreatic islets versus exocrine tissue. The protein expression of the biomarkers was subsequently validated for its specificity to beta cells versus non beta cells via immunocytochemistry on pancreatic slices of normal and diseased human and rodent pancreas human pancreatic cancer and T1D mouse model .

With this set of criteria we obtained a unique group of biomarkers selectively expressed on the plasma membrane of human and rodent pancreatic beta cells. The expression level is high enough to perform imaging targeting and their expression level is not substantially modified by inflammation and diabetic conditions or they have not been previously identified as auto antigens. This makes them perfect candidates for imaging targeting of beta cells.

The great advantage of the present invention is to enable determination of pancreatic beta cell mass in diabetes mellitus see below . Of note there are presently no other available methods to specifically measure beta cell mass.

Type 1 diabetes T1D is an autoimmune disease in which the body s immune system attacks and kills its own insulin producing beta cells and kills them. A key obstacle to early detection of T1D to understand the evolution of the disease and to assess the effectiveness of novel therapeutic interventions to prevent the disease is the lack of direct noninvasive technologies to visualize and measure beta cell mass. The lack of reliable methods to determine beta cell mass also limits follow up of pancreatic islet transplantation and of patients affected by type 2 diabetes T2D a disease where a progressive decrease of beta cell mass albeit of less magnitude than T1D is also present. To achieve the goal of beta cell imaging there is an urgent need for beta cell specific membrane proteins which can be visualized. To solve this problem we have selected candidate beta cell biomarkers by a Systems Biology approach. The results obtained indicate that 

The selected candidates are highly enriched in human pancreatic beta cells. Antibodies small molecules or peptides directed against them can be made into tracers to be used for PET or MRI or SPECT imaging. These tracers will bind preferentially to beta cells enabling very good specificity and selectivity. In later stages of T1D when there is a severe decrease in the number of beta cells and a relative increase in alpha cells beta cell specific biomarker will allow quantification of the remaining beta cell mass without background from non beta cells. These biomarkers will also allow follow up of pancreatic islet transplants examination of the progressive decrease in beta cell mass in type 2 diabetic patients or of an eventual increase in beta cell mass in obese non diabetic patients in this case there is an increase in beta cell mass that compensates for the insulin resistance .

The selected biomarkers are not induced by inflammation and will not target infiltrating immune cells. Beta cells express autoantigens which are detected by infiltrating immune cells. Since we compare the expression of our selected biomarkers in control and inflamed beta cells and select membrane proteins which are not expressed in immune cells we will be able to follow the beta cell mass during inflammation insulitis 

The selected candidates allow non invasive imaging of islet grafts following human islet transplantation and allow adjustment of immunosuppressive therapy to support graft survival and earlier interventions with the aim of rescuing transplants who are under augmented immune assault.

Endogenous antibodies targeting the candidates arising as part of the autoimmune process in T1D are valuable markers of autoimmunity and help in the detection of patients at a high risk to develop the disease.

The current agents used for imaging the pancreas include reagents such as glibenclamide dopamine fluorodeoxyglucose fluorodithizone and DOPA. The uptake of these agents in beta cells as compared to exocrine pancreas and non beta cells in the islets is not sufficient to allow reliable imaging of beta cell mass Sweet et al 2004 .

Our biomarker list was selected from unique datasets containing quantitative expression information in human islets MPSS and comparative expression data obtained from microarray datasets obtained in purified primary rat beta cells and primary rat non beta cells. The biomarkers selected here fit the following criteria 

1. The islet specific criteria is based on comparison of quantitative MPSS data from human islets compared to MPSS from 32 human tissues obtained from the LICR MPSS dataset publicly available database which includes total pancreas . We selected an enriched expression of more than 50 fold in islets versus pancreas. This is a new feature since quantitative MPSS datasets on human islets were not previously available.

2. The beta cell specific i.e. expressed more in beta cells than in alpha cells. This criteria is important for imaging beta cells in diseased states such as Type 1 Diabetes T1D . During the evolution of T1D beta cells progressively disappear while the number of alpha cells increase. It is therefore necessary to have biomarker s specific for beta cells and not or lowly expressed in alpha cells.

3. Expression levels should be higher or comparable to glucokinase. Glucokinase is an enzyme highly and selectively expressed in beta cells and comparison against glucokinase provides a reliable assessment of high expression of the potential biomarker.

4. The present biomarkers are plasma membrane located. We first used the TMHMM program to detect transmembrane regions which was followed by a thorough literature analysis GO analysis and Ingenuity pathway analysis were used to complement this criteria.

5. Expression levels are not induced by inflammation. Expression levels of selected biomarkers are not increased in condition of inflammation exposure to cytokines or virus induced in our microarray datasets obtained in human islets and in purified primary rat beta cells. This assures that modifications in the expression of the biomarker during insulitis prevailing in early T1D will not introduce spurious assessment of beta cell mass.

In conclusion the biomarkers are preferentially expressed in beta cells and are expressed on the surface in sufficient amounts to enable imaging. They have extracellular domains against which a naturally occurring ligand a peptide or and antibody or antibody fragment can be developed as tracer. The selected biomarkers will not be modified in conditions of inflammation. These unique features will make clinical analysis of beta cell mass possible.

The goal of the biomarkers of the present invention is their use in the estimation and visualisation of the pancreatic beta cell mass in health and diseased state diabetes or following islet transplantation . The invention will allow the development of tools for prediction and follow up of the diabetic state for the follow up of islet transplantation and as surrogate markers for therapeutic assays aiming to prevent diabetes and or regenerate beta cell mass. The non invasive imaging performed with these candidates will allow the detection of the increase of decrease in beta cell mass.

The invention therefore provides a non invasive method for the diagnosis or prognosis of a diabetic disorder such as type 1 or type 2 diabetes mellitus T1D or T2D or hyperinsulinemia by detecting and or measuring the beta cell mass of a subject and comparing it to a reference amount of beta cell mass of a healthy subject. An increase of the beta cell mass in the subject under investigation points to a condition of hyperinsulinemia while a reduction of the beta cell mass in the subject under investigation points to a condition of diabetes mellitus of type 1 or 2.

The non invasive method for the diagnosis or prognosis of a diabetic disorder encompasses the highly specific detection and or visualization of beta cells through the detection of beta cell specific biomarker selected from the group of FXYD2 gamma a FXYD2 gamma b and FXYD2 gamma c.

The detection of the specific markers is done by using a radioisotopically labelled tracer molecule that binds the biomarker with high specificity. Tracers may for example be antibodies or their fragments single chain antibodies nanobodies affybodies aptamers photoaptamers a specific ligand or interacting protein or any small molecule or the like that has been shown to specifically bind the biomarker of choice.

The antibodies can be known or commercially available antibodies or can be specifically designed to detect one of the biomarkers of the invention in a highly specific manner.

It is important to note that the sequence recognized by the SPY393 and 394 antibodies in the human FXYD2 gamma a is 100 similar to the sequence of the monkey FXYD2 gamma a. This enables us to test the characteristics of the labeled antibody in and to extrapolate the results obtained in said monkey model to the human situation.

In one embodiment the diagnostic or prognostic method of the invention uses Positron Emission Tomography PET a nuclear medicine medical imaging technique which produces a three dimensional image or map of functional processes in the body. The system detects pairs of gamma rays emitted indirectly by a positron emitting radioisotope which is introduced into the body through a tracer molecule e.g. a specific biomarker binding molecule. Images of the radioisotope labeled tracer in the body are then reconstructed by computer analysis. In modern scanners a PET scan is combined with a CT X ray scan PET CT performed on the patient at the same time in the same machine providing the structural reference of the organs etc.

In an alternative embodiment single photon emission computed tomography SPECT imaging can be used in the diagnostic or prognostic method of the invention. SPECT uses a gamma camera to acquire multiple 2 D projections from multiple angles. A computer is then used to apply a tomographic reconstruction algorithm to the multiple projections yielding a 3 D dataset. This dataset may then be manipulated to show thin slices along any chosen axis of the body.

Preferred labels used in PET or PET CT are short lived radioisoptopes such as carbon 11 20 min nitrogen 13 10 min oxygen 15 2 min and fluorine 18 110 min or medium lived radioisotopes such as iodine 124 4 days when appropriate.

a introducing an isotopically labelled tracer molecule specifically binding to said marker into a subject

b the in vivo visualisation of a tracer molecule specifically binding to the beta cells in the pancreas using PET PET CT or SPECT 

d comparison of the beta cell mass data obtained in step c with the beta cell mass of a healthy subject 

d diagnosing the subject as having diabetes or being at risk of having diabetes when the level of beta cell mass obtained in step c is reduced as compared to that of a healthy subject and diagnosing the subject as having hyperinsulinemia or being at risk of having hyperinsulinemia when the level of beta cell mass obtained in step c is increased as compared to that of a healthy subject.

The method of in vivo diagnosis or prognosis can be used to diagnose insulin related disorders such as type 1 or type 2 diabetes mellitus hyperinsulinemia and pancreatic cancer such as the occurrence of neuroendocrine tumors of the pancreas like insulinoma derived from the beta cells.

For treating insulin related disorders pancreatic islet transplantation is an option. Typically the Edmonton protocol is applied wherein specialized enzymes are used to remove islets from the pancreas of a deceased donor. Because the islets are fragile transplantation occurs soon after they are removed. Typically a patient receives at least 10 000 islet equivalents per kilogram of body weight extracted from two donor pancreases. Patients often require two transplants to achieve insulin independence. Some transplants have used fewer islet equivalents taken from a single donated pancreas. Transplants are often performed by a radiologist who uses x rays and ultrasound to guide placement of a catheter through the upper abdomen and into the portal vein of the liver. The islets are then infused slowly through the catheter into the liver. The patient receives a local anesthetic and a sedative. In some cases a surgeon may perform the transplant through a small incision using general anesthesia.

The key of success for such a beta cell transplantation treatment is of course the purity of the beta cell preparation used for the transplantation. The invention provides for methods of specifically isolating beta cells for use in islet transplantation and tools for follow up of transplanted beta cells.

In a further embodiment the invention provides for methods to isolate and or purify pancreatic beta cells from pancreatic tissue by visualizing or labeling the beta cells in a specific manner using one or more biomarkers selected from the group of FXYD2 gamma a FXYD2 gamma b and FXYD2 gamma c.

Alternatively the method provides a method for identification of stem cell populations in order to derive functional insulin expressing cells comprising the following steps 

a tagging the treated stem cells with a labeled binding molecule specifically directed to the marker FXYD2 gamma 

b isolating the labeled cells from the non labeled cells through the tag on the potential beta stem cells thereby obtaining a substantially pure beta stem cell preparation. The method of the invention can in certain embodiments further comprise the steps of 

c performing immunohistochemistry to identify the number of beta stem cells and to define the new beta cell mass and

The above separation methods can for example be performed by separating labelled cells from non labelled cells using standard separation techniques based on the retention of labelled binding molecules directed to one or more of the biomarkers of the present invention.

One option is to use antibodies aptamers oligonucleotides or other specific binding agents or ligands directed to one of the biomarkers of the invention for tagging cells of interest with a small magnetic particle or magnetic bead. The bead binding molecule conjugate is then directed to the beta cells in the pancreatic cell preparation and the beta cells can be specifically purified from the total pancreatic cell preparation by using e.g. an electromagnetic field. In some systems the sample is processed through a column that generates a magnetic field when placed within the separator instrument retaining only the labeled cells.

Other systems offer simplified versions of the magnetic separator. Instead of a column and separator instrument these systems use a simple magnet to directly retain the labeled cells within the tube while the supernatant is drawn off. Some of these systems can be used in a positive or negative selection manner. Negative or enrichment selection means that unwanted cells can be labeled captured leaving the cells of interest label free. The magnetic particles do not interfere with flow cytometry nor do they interfere with cell growth according to Hammonds so cells that have been isolated using such a system can be further cultured.

Magnetic separation has proven uniquely powerful and broadly applicable sometimes leading to 70 recovery of the target cells and up to 98 purity while retaining cell viability.

Alternatively an efficient non magnetic separation method based on work on tetrameric antibody complexes TACs works by linking unwanted cells in a sample together forming clumps. After labeling the sample is layered over a buoyant density medium such as Ficoll. The labeled cells pellet with when centrifuged while the desired unlabeled cells are recovered at the interface. This method is fast and the cells obtained are not labeled with antibodies and are untouched.

Many of these techniques are most powerful in combination. The skilled person would however be aware of other methods to selectively purify specific cell types.

The term binding molecules used in the methods and kits of the invention refers to all suitable binding molecules that are specifically binding or interacting with one of the biomarkers of the invention and that can be used in the methods and kits of the present invention. Examples of suitable binding agents are antibodies monoclonal or polyclonal antibodies nanobodies affybodies antibody fragments aptamers photoaptamers oligonucleotides lipocalins specifically interacting small molecules Molecular Imprinting Polymers MIPs DARPins ankyrins specifically interacting proteins peptidomimetics biomimetics or peptides and other molecules that specifically bind to one of the biomarkers. Both monoclonal polyclonal or single chain antibodies or fragments thereof that bind one of the biomarkers of the present invention are useful in the methods and kits of the present invention. The monoclonal and polyclonal antibodies can be prepared by methods known in the art and are often commercially available.

Aptamers that bind specifically to the biomarkers of the invention can be obtained using the so called SELEX or Systematic Evolution of Ligands by EXponential enrichment. In this system multiple rounds of selection and amplification can be used to select for DNA or RNA molecules with high specificity for a target of choice developed by Larry Gold and coworkers and described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 329 145. Recently a more refined method of designing co called photoaptamers with even higher specificity has been described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 458 539 by the group of Larry Gold.

Methods of identifying binding agents such as interacting proteins and small molecules are also known in the art. Examples are two hybrid analysis immunoprecipitation methods and the like.

In addition the invention also provides tools and methods for the identification of binding molecules such as peptides or small molecules monoclonal or polyclonal antibodies nanobodies affybodies antibody fragments aptamers photoaptamers lipocalins specifically interacting small molecules Molecular Imprinting Polymers MIPs DARPins ankyrins specifically interacting proteins or peptides and other molecules that specifically bind to one of the biomarkers using cells or cell lines that do or do not express the FXYD2 gamma marker. To this end the invention provides several FXYD2 gamma positive cells and or cell lines rodent pancreatic islets rat INS 1E AR42J cells and in human CAPAN 2 cells and one FXYD2 gamma negative cell line human PANC 1 cells . These cells or cell lines can be used to screen for binding agents or compounds that specifically bind to FXYD2 gamma positive cells but not to FXYD2 gamma negative cells in order to identify new tracer molecules for visualization of beta cell mass in PET PET CT or SPECT analysis.

In one such aspect the invention provides a method for identifying new tracer molecules that specifically bind FXYD2 positive cells comprising the steps of 

a contacting the candidate tracer molecule with the FXYD2 gamma positive cell type or cell line and measure the interaction between the candidate tracer molecule and the cells 

b contacting the candidate tracer molecule with the FXYD2 gamma negative cell type or cell line and measure the interaction between the candidate tracer molecule and the cells 

c wherein these candidate tracer molecules that bind the cells of step a but not the cells of step b are retained as beta cell mass tracer molecules. In a preferred embodiment of said method the FXYD2 gamma positive cell type or cell line is selected from the group consisting of rodent pancreatic islets rat INS 1E AR42J cells and in human CAPAN 2 cells and the FXYD2 gamma negative cell type or cell line is PANC 1.

The invention further provides kits for identifying new tracer molecules that specifically bind FXYD2 positive cells comprising two cell types or cell lines one being an FXYD2 gamma positive cell type or cell line and one being an FXYD2 gamma negative cell type or cell line. In a preferred embodiment the FXYD2 gamma positive cell type or cell line is selected from the group consisting of rodent pancreatic islets rat INS 1E AR42J cells and in human CAPAN 2 cells and the FXYD2 gamma negative cell type or cell line is PANC 1.

In addition to the use of cell lines biochemical binding assays known in the art using the FXYD2 gamma biomarker as a target can also be used.

The term label includes all suitable isotopic labels for use in PET PET CT or SPECT analysis labels suitable for specific extraction such as magnetic or paramagnetic beads labels suitable for diagnosis in vitro such as fluorescent dyes or other luminescent labels known in the art.

The term beta cell related disorder described in the methods or uses or kits of the invention encompasses all disorders related to beta cells such as type 1 diabetes mellitus type 2 diabetes mellitus hyperinsulinemia obesity neuroendocrine tumors or occurrence of insulinoma.

Additionally the biomarkers of the invention can also be used in in vitro methods for the analysis of the amount or characteristics of beta cells in a cell culture either obtained from a biopsy or from a cell line derived culture. Beta cell specific markers of the invention can further be used to characterize the differentiation state of cells such as modified stem cells differentiated in vitro as beta cells.

In all embodiments of the invention the term FXYD2 gamma includes the isoforms FXYD2 gamma a FXYD2 gamma b and FXYD2 gamma c.

The strategy used in these examples is depicted in . The pancreas is composed of 1 2 of tiny endocrine islets of Langerhans which are scattered in the exocrine tissue. The exocrine pancreas consists of acinar cells and a network of ducts. Islets contain insulin secreting beta cells and non beta cells e.g. the glucagon secreting alpha cells pancreatic polypeptide producing PP cells and somatostatin secreting delta cells. Pancreatic beta cells are selectively destroyed by an autoimmune assault in T1D and there is also evidence that beta cell loss is present in long term T2D albeit at a lower level than in T1D. Gene expression data on pancreatic islets and on pancreatic beta cells have been obtained in the last 8 years. The methods used are microarray analysis and massive parallel signature sequencing a procedure that detects gene expression based on sequencing of signatures derived from expressed sequences . The data obtained with MPSS are quantitative transcripts per million and more sensitive than array analysis transcripts as low as three copies per cell can be detected . To obtain the beta cell gene expression profile we performed MPSS in two independent human islet samples while microarray data was obtained on FACS purified rat primary beta cells and non beta cells. Human islets used for MPSS were of excellent quality the beta cell percentages of the two preparations were 53 and 59 . The MPSS data obtained showed 5662 genes in sample 1 and 5929 genes in sample 2 at a level of at least 5 tpm. A gene was considered as 80 or more specific to pancreatic islets if its signature count in islets were equal to or greater than 80 of the total count of signatures across the other 32 tissues examined including pancreas at a minimum level of 20 tpm. Insulin is at the top of the list with an average level of 126753 tpm this is 13 of the entire mRNA population in the human islet samples. Islet specific transcripts following the criteria described above were obtained by comparing the expression levels observed in pancreatic islets to a published MPSS dataset from 32 human tissues LICR MPSS dataset http mpss.licr.org . We detected a total of 940 genes that are relatively specific to pancreatic islets and 324 of these genes are expressed at higher levels in rat pancreatic cells as compared to a cells. Using the TMHMM program proteins with transmembrane regions were identified and 44 proteins were retained. These candidates were further analysed for plasma membrane location via literature GO and IPA analysis and the expression levels were analyzed in conditions of inflammation i.e. after exposure to cytokines or viruses own microarray data . The expression level of these genes was also examined in T cells lymphocytes based on the GNF symatlas website http symatlas.gnf.org SymAtlas . For the microarray analysis we used FACS sorted islet cells the purity of primary cells in the beta cell fraction was 90 while the non beta cell fraction contained mostly cells 75 85 . The results indicate that there are 6 190 6 270 genes expressed in rat and INS 1 cells threshold average signal intensity 250 target intensity 1500 . Differential expression analysis of genes expressed in vs non cells resulted in 983 genes that are enriched in cells fold enrichment 2 FDR 5 . There were 972 genes that were more highly expressed in cells as compared to non cells fold enrichment 2 .

The islet specific MPSS list and the beta cell specific gene list obtained by microarray were introduced in the Ingenuity Pathway Analysis software and we then selected plasma membranes and proteins allocated as unknown . By this procedure we obtained 121 plasma membrane proteins and 249 unknown proteins. We compared expression levels in islets versus total pancreas and selected genes that had more than 10 tpm expression level of Glucokinase in islets and had expression levels that were more than 50 fold amplified in islets versus total pancreas. We checked their expression levels in 32 other tissues. This comparison resulted in 55 islet specific membrane proteins. Using the microarray data we selected the proteins that had higher expression levels in beta cells than in non beta cells and identified 12 non beta cell specific genes data not shown . Comparing our microarray data obtained with primary beta cells in control versus 24 h exposure to cytokines 500 u ml IFN 100 u ml IL1 we omitted genes that were induced or severely inhibited after exposure to cytokines. Using the Symatlas open resource http symatlas.gnf.org SymAtlas we removed genes that were highly expressed in T cells and other cells of the immune system which will be present in the islets during the process of insulitis. Literature analysis of all candidates was performed and candidates previously identified as auto antigens were omitted since endogenous auto antibodies may interfere with the tracers used for beta cell imaging. A final group of 12 beta cell specific membrane proteins and 2 new islet specific membrane proteins were selected and are shown below in Table 1. The strategy described above is depicted schematically in .

MPSS data obtained in human islets compared to expression in 32 human tissues derived from the LICR MPSS dataset only expression levels above 5 tpm are shown.

The gamma subunit of the Na K ATPase FXYD2 ATP1G1 HOMG2 MGC12372 is a single span membrane protein that regulates the Na K ATPase by modifying its kinetic properties. The gamma subunit belongs to a family of 7 FXYD proteins which are tissue specifically expressed after Cornelius F et al 2003 . FXYD2 is abundantly expressed in the proximal and distal tubules and in the medullary thick ascending limb of Henle of the kidney Arystarkhova E et al 2002 Pihakaski Maunsbach K et al 2006 . Two splice variants gamma a SEQ ID NO 6 and gamma b SEQ ID NO 7 have been detected in rat and human Arystarkhova E et al 2005 while the third splice variant gamma c has been characterized only in mouse Holstead Jones D et al 2005 . Recently a further splice variant of FXYD2 has been deposited in the GenBank database NM001127489 2747 bp 145 AA 14.5 kDa SEQ ID NO 8 designated as the human FXYD2 gamma c splice variant. This new splice variant appears to an alternatively spliced form of the FXYD2 gamma a protein since it has an identical amino terminus of 21 amino acid residues . Interstingly this new gamma c variant SEQ ID NO 8 is also recognised by the antibody made by the inventors SPY393.

The inventors subsequently investigated whether this new gamma c variant is expressed in human CAPAN2 cells and in human islet cells. Additionally the inventors used immunoprecipitation on CAPAN2 cells using a SPY393 F ab 2 biotine binding agent and strept Dynabeads In order to sequence the protein of 20 kD which was consistently detected with the SPY393 antibody.

Three human FXYD2 splice variants have been characterized form gamma a and gamma b differ only in the N terminal 8 aa. For the gamma b peptide the sequence is conserved between rat human and mouse. The sequence is not conserved for the gamma a see . This new splice variant appears to an alternatively spliced form of the FXYD2 gamma a protein since it has an identical amino terminus of 21 amino acid residues a large insert in the middle of the protein and a different C terminus. The sequence is depicted in SEQ ID NO 8.

Validation of this candidate was initiated with the only available commercial monoclonal antibody raised against the full length gamma b splice variant from Abnova clone 1C3 B3 . Immunohistochemistry on pancreas and kidney slices confirmed the presence of FXYD2 gamma b in the kidney . The expression of FXYD2 in the pancreas was restricted to the pancreatic islets and to rare intercaled ducts in the exocrine tissue . Expression of FXYD2 in the pancreas and more specifically in the pancreatic islet has never been shown.

In rat dispersed islets analysed by Western Blotting the Abnova antibody detected weakly 2 bands approximatively 19 kDa and approximatively 6.4 kDa see for FXYD2.

Since no antibody was available to analyze the human gamma a splice variant alone rabbit polyclonal antibodies were raised collaboration with Eurogentec against the N terminal fragments of gamma a and gamma b human FXYD2 splice variants.

For this purpose two rabbits were injected per peptide. The rabbit SPY393 and SPY394 polyclonal antibodies recognize the gamma a FXYD2 peptide SPY394 also detects to a lesser extent the gamma b FXYD2 peptide . The SPY341 antibody recognizes the gamma b FXYD2 peptide. These antibodies were validated in rat mouse and human tissues.

The gamma b peptide selected for antibody production is similar for human rat and mouse and the antibodies SPY341 and SPY342 should be able to detect FXYD2 in these different species. Our human gamma a peptide 11 AA differs 4 AA with the rat gamma a peptide 11 AA The mouse gamma a peptide is longer 15 AA and differs 9 AA with our selected human gamma a peptide see . The C terminal part of both selected peptides used to produce antibodies is similar and can result in an antibody detecting both peptides.

To detect if the antibody 393 could be used in biodistribution studies for preliminary results in rodents rat or mouse we tested the antibody in Western blotting. Western blotting with the SPY393 and SPY394 antibodies on rat total kidney protein taken as positive control and on rat dispersed pancreatic islet cells showed a specific band of approximatively 19 kDa. This signal is specifically blocked by preincubation with an 10 fold overload of gamma a peptide . With the SPY341 and SPY394 antibodies we detected a very week signal of around 6.4 kDa which can be blocked with a 10 fold overload of gamma b peptide . The SPY342 did not detect specific binding that could be blocked with either gamma a or gamma b peptide .

As the sequence used to produce the antibody against the FXYD2 gamma a differs in human versus mouse we isolated different mouse tissues and analyzed SPY393 binding by Western Blotting. From all tissues analyzed only mouse pancreatic islets showed a specific FXYD2 band. see 

To determine whether the rabbit polyclonal antibodies detect specifically FXYD2 in the pancreatic islets without major binding to exocrine cells which could result in high background levels the antibodies were tested by immunohistochemistry on normal human pancreas. SPY393 antibody stains specifically the pancreatic islets without background in the exocrine pancreas. SPY394 detects the FXYD2 gamma a but the staining is less intense than the staining observed with the SPY393 antibody confirming the results seen in Western Blotting . SPY341 detects FXYD2 gamma b specifically in pancreatic islets but the staining is less intense than observed with SPY393. The antibody SPY342 did not stain the pancreas results not shown .

Based on the MPSS data FXYD2 expression is specifically detected in islets kidney and salivary gland with low expression detected in other tissues see Table 2 below . There was no detection in Adrenal Gland Bone Marrow Brain Pituitary Placenta Prostate Small Intestine Spinal cord Thyroid Trachea Colon and Monocytes. The MPSS data cf. Table 3 show a more than 500 fold amplification of the signal in pancreatic islets versus total pancreas. As pancreatic islets represent 1 2 of the total pancreatic mass this candidate is selected as islet specific.

To confirm the MPSS data immunohistochemistry was performed on 35 different human tissues Tissue Micro array or TMA results are shown in Table 2 . These TMA were tested with the commercial anti FXYD2 antibody and with our SPY393 anti FXYD2 antibody. Staining with our SPY393 antibody was only shown in the pancreatic islets of pancreas and not in any of the other human tissue sections.

Table 2 Comparison of commercial anti FXYD2 antibody Abnova and SPY 393 anti FXYD2 antibody of the invention.

Expression levels of FXYD2 in other tissues were derived from Microarray Symatlas data for the FXYD2 205674 x at probeset showing expression in pancreatic islets kidney and MOLT4 cells see weblink http symatlas.gnf.org SymAtlas cf. Table 6 for corresponding MPSS date. To validate that FXYD2 expression is detected specifically in beta cells immunohistochemistry was performed in consecutive pancreas slices that were analyzed with the SPY393 antibody directed against FXYD2 anti insulin antibody detecting beta cells or anti glucagon antibody detecting alpha cells pancreas paraffin sections of 3 m see .

To validate that FXYD2 was specifically expressed in beta cells we performed immunofluorescence see and Tables 4 and 5 for percentage colocalisation . For this purpose the SPY393 antibody with an anti rabbit IgG TRITC label red was used either in combination with a monoclonal antibody against glucagon K79bB10 Sigma cf. or in combination with a monoclonal antibody against insulin K36aC10 DBS cf. . The mouse monoclonal antibodies were detected with a anti mouse IgG FITC labelled green . No colocalisation was seen between the glucagon expressing a cells and FXYD2 cf. Table 4 while the insulin expressing cells all co localized with FXYD2 cf. Table 5 . This shows a preferential expression of FXYD2 gamma a in the pancreatic beta cells.

The Beta Cell Gene Expression Bank is an open resource created by the inventors containing microarray experiments performed in the Laboratory of Experimental Medicine. Microarray expression values were obtained in human islets rat primary beta cells and INS 1E cells comparing control versus inflammation conditions either induced by cytokines or by virus exposure . Microarray data were obtained on isolated human islets exposed for 48 h to either IL 1 50 U ml and IFN 1000 U ml or coxsackievirus 5B multiplicity of infection 30 100 Ylipaasto P et al 2005 . Analysis of the human datasets showed a twofold decrease in FXYD2 expression when exposed to cytokines and this decrease was lower when exposed to CBV5 see Table 6 . These data were confirming the MPSS data showing a 2 to 3 fold reduction of FXYD2 expression after exposure to cytokines for 48 h. Probesets in the rat microarray were scoring low this is probably due to bad selection of probesets.

Protein levels of FXYD2 were analysed in INS 1E and AR42J cells in control condition and in cytokine IL1 IFN induced conditions via Western Blotting no changes in FXYD2 a were detected and D .

Analysis by histochemistry shows both membrane and cytoplasmic expression of FXYD2 see previous figures and . Immunocytochemistry performed on rat and mouse dispersed pancreatic islets without perturbing the plasma membrane without the use of paraformaldehyde and Triton X100 showed detection of FXYD2 on the membrane of the cells.

In we show that the expression of FXYD2 gamma a is drastically decreased in islets from type 1 diabetes patients CO and TELF these codes identify two patients deceased respectively 3 days and 5 years after the diagnosis of type 1 diabetes compared to normal pancreas CTRL . Consecutive sections of 3 m were taken and stained with SPY393 antibody anti insulin antibody or anti glucagon antibody. In the TELF pancreas beta cells can not be detected based on insulin staining this was correlated with disappearance of FXYD2 staining. In the CO pancreas beta cells can not be detected based on insulin staining but a very faint staining of FXYD2 remained magnification 1000 .

In the amounts of the FXYD2 gamma a in islets from type 1 diabetes patients 20 Langerhans islets case were quantified of stained tissue area Labelling Index LI and mean staining intensity. As seen in the above in the TELF pancreas FXYD2 staining completely disappeared and this correlated with the disappearance of beta cells as identified by insulin staining. In the CO pancreas staining for insulin disappeared and this correlated with a 50 fold decreased staining for FXYD2 gamma a when comparing the labeling index LI with CTRL.

Alternative gene product encoded by XL exon Alex and Guanine nucleotide binding G s subunit alpha isoforms extra large XLas are two proteins encoded by the GNAS1 locus Abramowitz J et al 2004 through use of an alternative first exon and promoter. Gs alpha and Xlas have different N terminal domains but are identical over the carboxy terminal portion. Unlike the widely expressed Gs alpha XLas has a limited tissue distribution. It is mainly found in neuroendocrine tissues with very high levels in pituitary Kehlenbach R H et al 1994 Pasolli H et al 2000 . Xlas is a Gs protein involved in signalling of several Gs coupled receptors such as class B parathyroid hormone receptor 1 CRF receptor 1 b2 adrenergic receptor TSH receptor Bastepe M et al 2002 .

Xlas has also been located in the plasma membrane Pasolli H et al 2000 . Alex is a proline rich plasma membrane protein of 356 amino acids that is predominantly associated with cell membrane ruffles. It interacts with the extra large N terminal region of Xlas. Like XLas it is expressed in neuroendocrine cells Klemke M et al 2001 .

MPSS data show a 1200 fold enriched expression of the GNAS1 locus in pancreatic islets when compared to total pancreas. Therefore these 2 proteins were selected for protein validation.

As no commercial antibody was available for the human proteins and rat and human sequences differ considerably we selected the specific peptides to produce rabbit polyclonal antibodies Eurogentec .

Two rabbits were injected per peptide. Rabbit polyclonal antibodies SPY343 and SPY344 are targeted against Xlas and antibodies SPY345 and SPY346 are targeted against Alex. As human and rat sequences differ to much we could not validate the antibodies in Western Blotting. The antibodies were validated on human pancreas by immunohistochemistry. Rabbit polyclonal antibody SPY343 and SPY344 both detected Xlas specifically in the pancreatic islets in human paraffin pancreas sections with SPY344 giving the best results see different magnifications .

Further validation to confirm preferential expression in human pancreatic islets versus pancreas surrounding tissues by performing human tissue microarrays is proceeding.

Similarly the specific location of XLas and Alex to the pancreatic beta cells is being analysed by performing colocalisation with anti insulin or with anti glucagon antibodies.

The Beta Cell Gene Expression Bank is an open resource created by the inventors containing microarray experiments performed in the Laboratory of Experimental Medicine. Analysis of the microarray data performed on isolated human islets exposed for 48 h to either IL 1 50 U ml and IFN 1000 U ml or coxsackievirus 5B multiplicity of infection 30 100 Ylipaasto P. et al 2005 showed no induction of the GNAS locus in conditions of inflammation. These results can be seen on the following weblink 

Further validation of XLas and Alex in conditions of inflammation will be performed in pancreas sections of human T1D.

VAT1 is a membrane protein detected in synaptic vesicles responsible for regulating the storage and release of neurotransmitters in the nerve terminal. VMAT1 and VMAT2 expression was reported in the endocrine pancreas and in pancreatic tumors Anlauf et al 2003 . Rabbit polyclonal antibodies against VMAT1 showed expression in the endocrine duct cells. This information is however conflicting with the information obtained in our MPSS data where we see no expression in total pancreas and an expression of 507 tpm in pancreatic islets. In purified rat primary beta cells expression level are high and 2 fold increased in beta cells. Exposure to inflammation conditions decreases VAT1 expression.

C1. Own Results MPSS Data on Human Islets and Microarray Data Obtained in Rat Primary Beta Vs Non Beta Cells 

The gene is highly expressed in spinal cord lung and pancreatic beta cells see weblink http dil.t1dbase.org page GeneOverview display gene id 10493

CDIPT MGC1328 PIS PIS1 Pis Pis1 catalyzes a formation of phosphatidylinositol from CDP diacylglycerol Saito S et al 1998 . It is expressed in brain and retina. In pancreatic islets it is enriched in secretory granule membranes Rana R S et al 1986 . In our MPSS data its expression is enriched in pancreatic islets versus total pancreas. Expression levels in rat pancreatic beta cells are high and are 2 fold enriched versus non beta cells. In inflammation conditions CDIPT expression is reduced both in MPSS data on human islets and microarray data in human islets.

D1. Own Results MPSS Data on Human Islets and Microarray Data Obtained in Rat Primary Beta Vs Non Beta Cells 

BAIAP3 BAP3 is a protein implicated in regulated exocytosis Palmer R E et al. 2002 it has been reported to be induced by a novel transcription factor EWS WT1 in Desmoplastic small round cell tumor DSRCT . It has not been reported as expressed in pancreatic islets. No probeset is available on rat microarrays. In human islets its expression is enhanced in islets versus total pancreas in the microarray data obtained in human islets expression levels are in the range of glucokinase. Exposure to cytokines reduces BAIAP3 expression in human islets MPSS data 

E1. Own Microarray Information BAIAP3 is not Influenced by Inflammation and Expressed in Beta Cells and not in Pancreas Surrounding Tissues.

E2. GNF Symatlas Information the Probeset in the GNF Symatlas Showed High Expression in Brain and Pituitary. http symatlas.gnf.org SymAtlas 

CLSTN1 is a postsynaptic single pass type I membrane protein with a cytoplasmic calcium binding domain Vogt L. et al 2001 . Calsyntenin 1 docks vesicular cargo to kinesin 1 Koneca A et al 2006 . By electron microscopy the calsyntenin protein family was localized in the postsynaptic membrane of excitatory central nervous system CNS synapses. In situ hybridization analysis showed that CLSTN1 was abundant in most neurons of the central nervous system Hintsch G. et al 2002 . In our MPSS data CLSTN1 expression is enriched in pancreatic islets versus pancreas it is highly expressed in rat primary beta cells and enriched 2.5 fold in beta versus non beta cells. Exposure of human islets to inflammatory conditions decreases CLSTN1 expression in human islets MPSS data .

SLC7A5 cationic amino acid transporter y system member 5 or LAT1 is a plasma membrane transporter important for the import of large neutral amino acids with branched or aromatic side chains. In our MPSS data its expression is enriched in human islets versus total pancreas. It is highly expressed in rat pancreatic beta cells and more than 2 fold increased in beta cells compared to non beta cells. Its expression is not induced in rat primary beta cells exposed to cytokines. Exposure of human islets to cytokines decreases LAT1 expression MPSS data .

G2. Symatlas Information http symatlas.gnf.org SymAtlas Expression is Higher in Islets than in Total Pancreas and is Found in Restricted Population of Cells. 

Cortactin CTTN EMS1 is a regulator of dynamic actin networks. It is located in the membrane and involved in vesicle transport and in cell cell adhesion and cell spreading. Recently it was shown that in head and neck tumours squamous cell carcinoma cells cortactin overexpression promotes resistance to the EGFR kinase inhibitor gefitinib Timpson P et al 2007 . It has not been reported as expressed in pancreatic islets. In our MPSS data CTTN is enriched in pancreatic islets versus total pancreas. Expression levels in primary beta cells are high and almost 3 fold enriched in beta cells versus non beta cells. Exposure of human islets to inflammation conditions decreases CTTN expression both in MPSS data and microarray data.

H2. GNF symatlas information http symatlas.gnf.org SymAtlas the information found in Synatlas does not confirm our data that CTTN is enriched in pancreatic islets the probeset score low which can be due to selection of a bad probeset.

The LYPD1 or PHTS putative Hela tumor suppressor antisense gene is highly expressed throughout the central nervous system Egerod K L et al 2007 . It was reported to overlap with the 3 exon of the GPR39 gene. It contains an N terminal signal sequence and a leukocyte antigen 6 Ly6 u PAR PLAUR domain characteristic of glycosylphosphatidylinositol linked cell surface glycoproteins. Overexpression of LYPD1 reduced cell survival in Hela cells Yu D. et al 2006 . In our MPSS data LYPD1 is enriched in pancreatic islets versus total pancreas. Expression levels in rat primary beta cells are not high but are more than 10 fold enriched in beta versus non beta cells.

Annexin A7 Anx7 or synexin is a calcium dependent membrane binding protein that fuses membranes but can act as a voltage dependent calcium channel Caohuy H et al 1996 . Anx7 is required for nutritional control of gene expression in mouse pancreatic islets of Langerhans Srivastava M et al 1999 and 2002 . The null phenotype was lethal at embryonic day 10. Heterozygous mice were viable and fertile but showed a defect in insulin secretion and an increased insulin content within isolated pancreatic islets. These mice have a profound reduction in inositol 1 4 5 triphosphate IP3 receptor function in pancreatic islets. Different splice variants have been characterized with tissue specific expression Magendzo K et al 1991 . Annexin 7 mobilizes calcium from endoplasmic reticulum stores in brain Watson W D. Et al 2004 . Anx7 is enriched in pancreatic islets versus total pancreas. In rat primary beta cells it is highly expressed and enriched in beta versus alpha cells. Exposure to cytokines does not increase ANXA7 expression in human islets MPSS data .

DMBT1 GP340 muclin Crpd also called surfactant pulmonary associated protein D binding protein is a novel member of the scavenger receptor superfamily Holmskov et al 1997 . Mutations of the DMBT1 gene have been reported in human astrocytic gliomas Mollenhauer J. et al 1997 and Mueller W. et al 2002 . Different isoforms have tissue specific expression expression has been reported in alveolar and macrophage tissues. A loss or reduction of DMBT1 expression was seen in esophageal gastric lung and colorectal carcinomas. In our MPSS data DMBT1 is enriched in pancreatic islets versus total pancreas. Expression levels in rat primary beta cells are not high but are more than 2 fold enriched in beta versus non beta cells.

KIAA1543 was cloned from a cDNA library of human brain Nagase T. et al 2000 it has not been identified in pancreas. Its function is unknown. In our MPSS data its expression is enriched in pancreatic islets versus total pancreas. No probeset is available on human and rat microarrays. Exposure of human islets to cytokines has no effect on its expression MPSS data .

M. Marker SLC7A8 Solute Carrier Family 7 Cationic Amino Acid Transporter y System Member 8 Hs.632348 

SLC7A8 or LAT2 or Linker for activation of T cells family member 2 Non T cell activation linker Williams Beuren syndrome chromosome region 15 protein . is a 535 amino acid protein with 12 transmembrane domains with the N and C termini intracytoplasmic. Coexpression of SLC7A8 with the 4F2 heavy chain brings SLC7A8 to the plasma membrane and induces an amino acid transport activity with broad specificity for small and large zwitterionic amino acids Pineda M et al 1999 . Highest expression was reported in kidney the dopamine precursor L dihydroxyphenylalanine is transported through LAT2 Quinones H. et al 2004 . Over expression of renal LAT1 and LAT2 enhanced L DOPA uptake in immortalized renal proximal tubular cells Pinho L W et al 2003 and 2004 . Expression of LAT2 is enriched in pancreatic islets versus total pancreas MPSS data . Expression levels in rat primary beta cells are high and 2 fold increased in beta versus non beta cells.

In conclusion a group of 12 beta cell specific and 2 new islet specific plasma membrane proteins have been identified. The top 3 FXYD2 Alex and Xlas were selected to set up the validation strategy. All three candidates were specifically enriched in the pancreatic islets and located specifically to the islets in the pancreas. FXYD2 is only expressed in the pancreatic beta cells and is detected in the plasma membrane. All 3 candidates are not induced in conditions of inflammation.

Expression of FXYD2 gamma a is drastically decreased in islets from type 1 diabetes patients CO and TELF these codes identify two patients deceased respectively 3 days and 5 years after the diagnosis of type 1 diabetes compared to normal pancreas CTRL . Consecutive sections of 3 m were taken and stained with SPY393 antibody anti insulin antibody or anti glucagon antibody. In the TELF pancreas beta cells can not be detected based on insulin staining this was correlated with disappearance of FXYD2 staining. In the CO pancreas beta cells can not be detected based on insulin staining but a very faint staining of FXYD2 remained cf. magnification 1000 .

In addition a significant decrease in insulin and FXYD2 gamma a expression in the pancreas of STZ induced diabetic could be demonstrated . Pancreas sections from control CT and STZ induced diabetic Primate P1 6 were analysed. Six islets per case were counted by three observers unaware of sample identity. Glucagon positive insulin positive and FXYD2 gamma a positive cells were calculated as relative percentage per islet Values in CT were considered as 100 . Percentage of cells stained for insulin glucagon and FXYD2 gamma a in STZ treated and non treated control CT are represented in Table 7 below. Pancreas sections from control primate CT and STZ induced diabetic pancreas Primate 1 6 were analyzed. The number of beta cells were counted as percentage cells of total pancreas. Six islets per case were counted by three observers unaware of sample identity. Glucagon positive insulin positive and SPY393 positive cells were calculated as relative percentage of positive cells per islet.

The SPY393 antibody can be labeled with any radioactive tracer to perform biodistribution studies. In this particular example I was used. A monoclonal antibody can also be developed for FXYD2 and after validation this antibody and its fragments can also be used in a biodistribution study. Methods for making monoclonal antibodies are well known in the art.

The results of a first biodistribution study in are shown in . The animals were injected with SPY393 antibody labeled with I. PET scans were performed at different time points after the injection. The results are also given in Table 8 below. As can be seen from the figures the pancreas is indeed targeted Day 1 and day 2 but the signal is somewhat hidden due to staining of the stomach content cf. . New scans are performed to reduce this background.

These first experiments in any case show without doubt that the FXYD2 gamma marker is a very promising target for beta cell mass determination and visualization in the body of a mammal.

In another aspect the invention provides a method fro the identification of small molecules that specifically bind with FXYD2 gamma positive cells. Such small molecules e.g. peptides chemical compounds and the like can then be use as tracers for visualizing beta cell mass. To this end the inventors identified human cell lines which either did or did not express the FXYD2 biomarker.

As indicated in expression of FXYD2 gamma a and gamma b isoforms could be shown in rodent pancreatic islets rat INS 1E AR42J cells and in human CAPAN 2 cells but not in human PANC 1 cells. FXYD2 gamma a expression is not changed after 24 h exposure to cytokines which confirms that the method used to select the beta cell markers indeed is cytokine expression independent.

The use of two separate cell lines or cell types that do and do not express the SPYone biomarker enables the identification of small molecules that specifically bind to the SPYone biomarker and which will be usefull as tracers for e.g. PET PET CT or SPECT analysis. The means for screening small molecules specific for binding with the SPYone positive cells and not for SPYone negative cells are well known in the art.

For example a phage display experiment will be done to identify peptides binding to FXYD2 these peptides will be labeled and used to perform a biodistribution analysis. Alternatively a chemical compound library will be screened for compounds binding specifically to FXYD2 this compound will be labeled and used to perform a biodistribution analysis. In addition small antibody fragment Nanobodies Ablynx NV libraries humanized single chain Fv libraries could be screened.

