---

title: Configuring object displays
abstract: An object configuration module for configuring an object retrieves a view object associated with a user from a database. The view object may comprise a plurality of attributes. The object configuration module may further retrieve configuration information for the view object from the database. The configuration information may comprise properties of the attributes, and the properties may be customized by the user for the view object. The object configuration module may then set the properties for each of the attributes based on the retrieved configuration information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09183248&OS=09183248&RS=09183248
owner: Oracle International Corporation
number: 09183248
owner_city: Redwood Shores
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090609
---
Embodiments of the invention are generally related to computer systems and in particular to an apparatus system and method for configuring object display information.

Computer or web applications can be utilized to display information retrieved from a database system. The information may be displayed by the application in a table layout for example. Typically an application developer at the time of design would develop code to retrieve data from the database and to display the information in a table with designated properties and format. An end user of the application would not have the ability to configure the pre designated properties or format of the data unless the end user had access to and the ability to modify the underlying code.

One embodiment is directed to an object configuration module for configuring an object. The object configuration module retrieves a view object associated with a user from a database. The view object may comprise a plurality of attributes. The object configuration module may further retrieve configuration information for the view object from the database. The configuration information may comprise properties of the attributes and the properties may be customized by the user for the view object. The object configuration module may then set the properties for each of the attributes based on the retrieved configuration information.

One embodiment is directed to a system for configuring an object such as a table plan page or display in accordance with an end user s preferences. Configuration information previously specified by a user via a graphical user interface for example is retrieved from a database. The configuration information may be associated with the object and may specify the user requested configuration of the layout display and attribute properties of the object. Customization of an object in this manner may provide a user with an increased level of security and privacy.

Computer readable media may be any available media that can be accessed by processor and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media and communication media. Communication media may include computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media.

Processor is further coupled via bus to a display such as a Liquid Crystal Display LCD for displaying information to a user such as configuration information. A keyboard and a cursor control device such as a computer mouse are further coupled to bus to enable a user to interface with system . Processor and memory may also be coupled via bus to a database system and thus may be able to access and retrieve information stored in database system . Although only a single database is illustrated in any number of databases may be used in accordance with certain embodiments.

In one embodiment memory stores software modules that provide functionality when executed by processor . The modules may include an operating system that provides operating system functionality for system . The memory may also store an object configuration module which may be used to configure an object display based on a number of determinations as discussed in more detail below. In other embodiments object configuration module may be a stand alone system or may be part of any other system.

System may also include one or more other functional modules to provide additional functionality. For example other functional modules may include a compensation workbench program. In one embodiment the compensation workbench can allow managers and compensation professionals to plan allocate and model budgets and awards globally and across multiple currencies. The compensation workbench may also allow users to distribute budgets and compensation based on certain guidelines in addition to providing a worksheet view of employees performance ratings and total compensation. Analytics within the compensation workbench may provide internal and external comparisons statistical analysis compensation history and overviews of budgets and allocations to enable managers to make decisions that achieve certain objectives. In one embodiment the compensation workbench is the COMPENSATION WORKBENCH from Oracle Corporation.

Database system may include a database server and any type of database such as a relational or flat file database. Database system may store data related to the object the object configuration model and or any data associated with system or its associated modules and components.

In one embodiment system may operate within a model view controller MVC framework. MVC may be operable to separate data of an application the model from the user interface the view so that modifications to the user interface will not affect data handling and so that the data can be reorganized and or altered without changing the user interface. In other words MVC decouples data access and business logic from the data presentation and user interaction. In one embodiment MVC is stored in memory . Additionally MVC may be implemented in hardware alone or in a combination of hardware and software.

In one embodiment the model is a domain specific representation of the information that the application operates. Domain logic adds meaning to raw data which for example may be the data stored in database . The view renders the model into a form suitable for interaction such as a user interface. Multiple views can exist for a single mode for different purposes. The controller aspect of MVC processes and responds to events typically user actions and may invoke changes on the model. For example the controller may notify the model of the user actions possibly resulting in a change in the model s state. A view can use the model indirectly to generate an appropriate user interface. The model and controller need not have direct knowledge of the view.

In one embodiment processor and or MVC can retrieve a view object associated with a user from database system . Processor or MVC may also control object configuration module to retrieve configuration information associated with the retrieved view object from the database system . Alternatively processor and or MVC may directly retrieve the configuration information. The configuration information may have been previously defined and or customized by a user associated with the view object. In one embodiment the user may utilize a graphical user interface to setup the configuration information. Object configuration module may then apply the retrieved configuration information to its associated view object. The view object now configured according to the user preferred configuration information is then transmitted to display for display to the user. Therefore in some embodiments the configuration information and the associated object may be stored accessed and modified separately.

In certain embodiments processor MVC object configuration module and other functional modules may be implemented as separate physical and logical units or may be implemented in a single physical and logical unit. Furthermore in some embodiments processor MVC object configuration module and other functional modules may be implemented in hardware or as any suitable combination of hardware and software.

For example configuration user interface may permit a user to specify and or modify a table and its attributes or features. In one embodiment configuration user interface includes a Summary tab a Detail Table tab an Employee List tab an Actions tab and an Instructions tab . Summary tab Detail Table tab and Employee List tab respectively correspond to a Summary table Detail table and Employee List table on budgeting pages of a web application such as the compensation workbench program. Selection of one of these tabs allows the user to modify the features of a table corresponding to the selected tab. Each of the tables may be configured independently of the other tables.

As illustrated in Summary tab may include an enable option to enable the display of a corresponding column in the table. Column lists the subject matter of a particular column within a table structure. The table structure may be a view object stored in database system as discussed above. Display name includes fields that allow a user to customize the header display name of the corresponding column . Default sequence refers to the display order of the columns when the page is rendered. Default sequence allows a user to specify the display order of the columns. In the example illustrated in the numbers displayed in the default sequence column are incremented by ten in case the user decides they want to place a column in between 10 and 20 for example. As a result the user can specify that a column should have a default sequence of 15 without having to reorder all the default sequence numbers for all the columns. In other embodiments the user can enter any default sequence number and are not required to be in increments of 10. Properties is a field that allows a user to specify the properties of each cell for a corresponding column . Properties may include a link or icon that directs the user to a window that allows the user to select certain properties regarding each cell in the corresponding column .

Therefore configuration user interface and properties window provide an interface in which an end user may configure a customized view of a table or page that corresponds to an object in the database system including customizing the layout display properties and attribute properties. In an embodiment configuration user interface may allow a user to configure a number of preferences related to the display of the table. These preferences may include column heading label display order of the column within a table initially hidden column setting in which a column may be unhidden by certain table actions a permanently hidden column setting an editable column setting number formatting properties a rounding code a monetary or non monetary setting and a spanning column feature in which a spanned column is hidden if no sub columns under the spanned columns are visible .

Once a user s configuration has been selected and submitted system is configured to automatically display a customized view of an object such as a table in accordance with the settings selected by the user i.e. configuration information . illustrates an example of a user interface including a customized view of a table that is displayed according to user preferences provided via configuration user interface according to one embodiment. In this example table includes a personalized view of an employee list. Table may be based on an object of an employee list stored in database system . Table includes a listing of employee names in the Employee Name column . Table may further include a section of non editable columns including an eligibility status alert currency type and eligible salaries. Section may include editable columns such as employee budget amount and employee budget percent of eligible salaries. Section includes additional columns such as budget available target target percent and units. In the example illustrated in FIG. the formatting properties of the numbers was not defined so the table has been configured without a thousand s separator or decimals.

In certain embodiments instructions or operations may be implemented or processed by API or by modules of in order to configure an object as discussed above. Example pseudo code corresponding to these instructions or operations may be as follows 

Setting the property attributes in the view object functionality allows for the presentation of a logical view of an object e.g. table of in accordance with the configuration information. As a result in one example an object e.g. table of is configured and displayed in user interface in accordance with the view that was set by configuration API . According to one embodiment configuration API and view object functionality may be stored in memory such as within operating system object configuration module or as an other functional module of .

At a view object associated with the current user and received parameters is retrieved. In one embodiment the view object is retrieved from database system . At the configuration information associated with the view object is obtained. In one embodiment the configuration information is obtained based on the current user and based on the received parameters. The configuration information may also be stored in database system . The configuration information may include information relating to the current attribute the display flag the initially hidden flag the updates allowed flag the order number the number of decimals to display the thousand separator flag and the routing code.

At the properties for each attribute in the retrieved view object is set based on the configuration information. In one example each view object has at least one associated set of configuration information. At the view object customized according to the configuration information is provided to the user.

In one embodiment the functionality of the diagrams illustrated in may be implemented by software stored in memory or other computer readable or tangible media and executed by a processor. In other embodiments the functionality can be performed by hardware e.g. by an application specific integrated processor ASIC a programmable gate array PGA a field programmable gate array FGPA etc. or any combination of hardware and software.

Each view object such as the one illustrated in may include a number of attributes. As indicated in section view object attributes can be based upon attributes from an entity object and may be calculated or may be derived from a query e.g. SQL derived . For each attribute listed in name column a corresponding type column and related information is displayed. Type refers to a classification indicating a category of data such as numeric string long big decimal integer floating point Boolean etc. The type may determine the types of operations that may be performed on the corresponding data and the way in which the data is stored. Column identified a minimum set of columns that serve as a key value in database system for the corresponding attribute . A key icon is displayed for each attribute that refers to a key value. Information column provides data relating the basis of the corresponding attribute and or how it is calculated.

Therefore according to certain embodiments a user is allowed to customize and configure the attributes of an object according to their preferences. In one embodiment the user may specify their desired configuration of an object via a user interface. The user specified configuration information may then be stored in a database or memory. In some embodiments upon receipt of a request to view a certain object a processor or object configuration module is configured to retrieve the requested object from the database or memory. The processor or object configuration module may additionally retrieve the user specified configuration information associated with the object from the database or memory. In one embodiment the object configuration module may then apply the retrieved configuration information to its associated view thereby setting the desired properties for each attribute in the object based on the configuration information. The resulting object customized according to the user specified configuration information may then be returned and displayed to the user.

As a result of certain embodiments an end user is provided with the discretion to customize the layout display and properties of an object such as a table. For example the end user can have the option of hiding or modifying certain features of a table. Therefore the user is afforded with a desired level of security and privacy since for example secure elements of the view may be hidden from display. Additionally in certain embodiments the user will only be required to configure the object or provide configuration information only once for each plan. Subsequently whenever the user requests access to that object it will be customized according to the user s previously provided configuration information. Alternatively in one embodiment a default setup is provided in cases where the user does not wish to provide any configuration information.

As mentioned above certain embodiments may be implemented in a compensation and budgeting application. In the area of compensation and budgeting different end users may desire to access and or different information in each of their plans and budgets. Certain embodiments as discussed above easily allow an end user to configure a table for each plan and or budget according to their specific requirements.

One having ordinary skill in the art will readily understand that the invention as discussed above may be practiced with steps in a different order and or with hardware elements in configurations which are different than those which are disclosed. Therefore although the invention has been described based upon these preferred embodiments it would be apparent to those of skill in the art that certain modifications variations and alternative constructions would be apparent while remaining within the spirit and scope of the invention. The features structures or characteristics of the invention described throughout this specification may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. Thus embodiments may be practiced alone or in any combination. In order to determine the metes and bounds of the invention therefore reference should be made to the appended claims.

