---

title: Methods for single-pass volumetric bidirectional blood flow imaging spectral domain optical coherence tomography using a modified hilbert transform
abstract: The present subject matter relates to in vivo volumetric bidirectional blood flow imaging using single-pass flow imaging spectral domain optical coherence tomography. This technique uses a modified Hilbert transform algorithm to separate moving and non-moving scatterers within a depth. The resulting reconstructed image maps the components of moving scatterers flowing into and out of the imaging axis onto opposite image halfplanes, enabling volumetric bidirectional flow mapping without manual segmentation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08718743&OS=08718743&RS=08718743
owner: Duke University
number: 08718743
owner_city: Durham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090424
---
The presently disclosed subject matter claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 047 518 filed Apr. 24 2008 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with government support under Grant No. R21 EY017393 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The subject matter disclosed herein relates generally to in vivo volumetric bidirectional blood flow imaging. More particularly the subject matter disclosed herein relates to methods for imaging using spectral domain optical coherence tomography.

Spectral domain optical coherence tomography SDOCT including both spectrometer based and swept source systems has demonstrated clinical potential for in vivo high resolution and high speed imaging of biological structures. Advances in Doppler SDOCT have demonstrated several image acquisition schemes that enabled real time high resolution volumetric display of blood flow maps. These techniques while able to provide 3D flow maps and velocimetry data are inherently oversampled and therefore have reduced imaging speed and are more susceptible to sample motion.

Current generation Doppler SDOCT techniques use phase differences between sequential A scans acquired at a single lateral position to calculate the velocity of moving scatterers through depth. These techniques relate the phase differences between sequential interferograms to a Doppler frequency shift which in turn is related to the velocity of the moving scatterers. Recently advances in Doppler SDOCT have led to a joint spectral and time domain acquisition scheme STdOCT which allows for near phase noise limited velocity resolution in low signal conditions. This technique is a variation of conventional Doppler which functions by determining the velocity of moving scatterers using their temporal frequency shifts rather than the phase differences between sequential A scans at a single lateral scan position. By taking a 2D Fourier transform of interference fringes temporally oversampled at the same A scan position 20 40 times STdOCT directly maps wave number to depth and time to Doppler frequency thus creating a depth resolved Doppler velocity map. This technique while able to provide depth resolved flow images and velocimetry data is several times more oversampled than conventional Doppler making it more susceptible to motion artifacts. Other techniques for identifying vessels involve injections of contrast agents such as FA and ICGA and or manual segmentation of vessels.

Spatial frequency modulations across lateral scans have been introduced as a method for full range complex conjugate resolved imaging. Similar to previously described complex conjugate resolving techniques using electro optic phase modulators and acousto optic frequency shifters the spatial frequency modulation technique separates real and complex conjugate reflectivities by imposing a spatial carrier frequency laterally across a B scan. The carrier frequency is generated by adding a phase delay to each A scan using a moving reference arm or an off pivot scanning beam. Similarly a 3D optical angiography technique has been demonstrated by using a modulated reference arm delay and by detecting scatterers not modulated at the carrier frequency as a result of flow induced Doppler frequency shifts. Resonant Doppler flow imaging also uses reference arm modulations to detect flow but instead of using a moving reference arm mirror resonant. Doppler uses an electro optic modulator driven at a flow detection frequency to phase match the reference signal to that of the moving scatterer.

Spatial frequency flow detection techniques can be considered optical analogs to power Doppler PD ultrasonography. Developed as a method of improving the sensitivity of Doppler ultrasound the analog to DOCT PD reports the power of the Doppler signal within specified frequency windows instead of the mean frequency shift. The advantage arises from the representation of the power spectrum of random phase noise. Since the noise in the power spectrum is uniformly low random phase variations can be filtered out by raising the sensitivity threshold above the noise floor. The Doppler signal in PD is represented as an integral of the power spectrum which improves the sensitivity and detection range of moving scatterers at the expense of eliminating velocity information. PD is relatively insensitive to Doppler angle and phase wrapping since these factors only modify the distribution of the Doppler power spectrum but the total integrated power remains constant. The Doppler signal in PD is separated from non moving components by filtering out all power spectrum components without Doppler shifts thus only imaging moving scatterers. The resulting PD signal is related to the number of moving scatterers producing the corresponding Doppler shifts.

These techniques rely on precise synchronization of reference arm modulation and B scan acquisition require expensive or cumbersome modulators and are unable to detect bidirectional flow in a single B scan pass. In addition spatial frequency filtering techniques while able to provide 3D flow maps with improved acquisition speed and sensitivity compared with DOCT lack velocity resolved blood flow information provided by techniques such as DOCT and laser Doppler velocimetry LDV . Accordingly in ophthalmology noninvasive quantification of blood circulation in tissues would be advantageous to facilitate the description of retinal vascular changes prior to and during ocular and systemic disease.

In accordance with this disclosure methods for imaging using spectral domain optical coherence tomography are provided. In one aspect a method for imaging using a spectral domain optical coherence tomographic SDOCT device is provided. The method can include producing interferometric signals from an SDOCT device the interferometric signals containing moving scatterer data from non moving scatterer data separating the moving scatterer data from the non moving scatterer data in the interferometric signals using a modified Hilbert transform algorithm and producing a flow image of the moving scatterer data.

In another aspect a method for blood flow imaging is provided. The method can include emitting a light from a light source splitting the light into a first light and a second light directing the first light toward a sample containing moving and non moving scatterers within a depth to produce a first reflected light the first reflected light containing an image of both the moving and non moving scatterers directing the second light toward a reference reflector to create a second reflected light combining the first reflected light and the second reflected light to produce interferometric signals the interferometric signals containing moving scatterer data from non moving scatterer data separating the moving scatterer data from the non moving scatterer data in the interferometric signals using a modified Hilbert transform algorithm and producing a flow image of the moving scatterer data.

It is therefore an object of the presently disclosed subject matter to provide methods that improve data acquisition speeds over DOCT for imaging of small spatial volumes of moderately high flow velocities. It is a further object of the presently disclosed subject matter to provide methods that have improved sensitivity over DOCT for small vessels at the resolution limit of the imaging system.

Some of the objects of the subject matter disclosed herein having been stated hereinabove and which are achieved in whole or in part by the presently disclosed subject matter other objects will become evident as the description proceeds when taken in connection with the accompanying drawings as best described hereinbelow.

The present subject matter provides an improvement on 3D optical angiography. Single pass volumetric bidirectional blood flow imaging SPFI SDOCT detects moving scatterers using a modified Hilbert transform without the use of spatial frequency modulation. Since no frequency modulations are required and SPFI processing is applied to the spatial frequency content across a single B scan SPFI is applicable for both spectrometer based and swept source OCT systems provided they have comparable B scan acquisition rates. Unlike previously described techniques which require two separate B scans to detect positive and negative flow each with modulations tuned to the desired flow direction SPFI is able to resolve bidirectional flow in a single B scan pass across the sample.

The depth encoded complex spectral interferometric signal from M discrete sample reflectors for an SDOCT system can be written as follows 

The recorded interferometric signal represents the real part of a summation of signals from M discrete reflectors Eq. 1 in a coherence volume i.e. spot size coherence length and thus the phase term x can be represented as follows 

Since the recorded spectral datacube is real valued the previously described spatial Fourier transforms include both real and complex conjugate peaks. Previous works have shown that by imposing a constant phase shift between A scans along a single lateral scan direction a carrier frequency can be added to the phase term and thus isolating real and complex conjugate peaks to opposite spatial frequency spaces. Windowing out the conjugate peaks inverse transforming back to k space e.g. using a Hilbert transform and then applying conventional spectral Fourier transforms on the data allowed for separation of moving e.g. flow and non moving e.g. structure scatterers to opposite image half planes. Imaging of bidirectional flow required applying positive and negative carrier frequencies and processing each datacube separately. In SPFI SDOCT we recognize that without the use of carrier frequencies the spatial frequencies of moving and non moving scatterers do not overlap at spatial frequencies above the non moving scatterer bandwidth. For instance and illustrate that a lateral Fourier transform of a B scan yields a spatial frequency of a sample centered around DC and a spatial frequency of moving scatterers shifted by their respective Doppler frequencies. An analytic signal for the spectral interferogram can be obtained by applying a Heaviside function H u f frequency shifted outside of the structural bandwidth See e.g. and then inverse Fourier transforming the result See e.g. . Application of this modified Hilbert transform HT enables bidirectional flow imaging by windowing Eq. 4 to yield the following 

Spatial oversampling and velocity resolution can be related by combing the velocity related Doppler frequency shift with the spatial frequency resolution which can be represented as follows 

Since the resulting complex interferometric signal is a sum of positive moving scatterers and the conjugate of negative moving scatterers application of conventional SDOCT processing yields a flow image where bidirectional flow is imaged to opposite sides of DC. For instance shows a spectral inverse Fourier transform of the analytic interferometric signal maps depth solved reflectivities of bidirectionally moving scatterers on opposite image half planes which can then be overlaid for vessel identification See e.g. . Finally application of the Heaviside function to isolate moving scatterers also acts to reduce the overall noise of the velocity map. It is noted that in a similar analysis for complex conjugate removal it can be demonstrated that spatial frequency windowing provides an SNR gain related to the window function. Similarly in SPFI the resulting vessel map should benefit from a signal gain as a result of rejection of noise components outside of the velocity detection band.

In addition since velocity depends linearly on frequency application of a spatial frequency window will necessarily filter out all velocities not traveling at velocities described by the following 

Finally a datacube l x z v for each B scan can be formed by shifting the spatial frequency window across the bandwidth of moving scatterers inverse transforming the result back to functions of l k x and then performing a spectral inverse Fourier transform. For instance and illustrate that a lateral Fourier transform of raw SDOCT spectral interferogram B scan See yields a spatial frequency of stationary scatterers centered around DC and spatial frequency of moving scatterers shifted by their respective Doppler frequencies See . Applying a frequency shifted Heaviside step function spatial frequency windowing and inverse Fourier transforming each frequency range See recreates the analytic interferometric signal See . A spectral inverse Fourier transform of the analytic interferometric signal maps depth solved reflectivities of moving scatterers for each corresponding velocity range into a datacube for each B scan See . Bidirectional flow is mapped onto opposite image half planes. Summing the datacube across all velocity ranges creates velocity and depth resolved B scans.

Each v slice represents a velocity range given by Eq. 9 and the datacube can be summed across the v dimension to create a single velocity resolved B scan. Similar to conventional DOCT velocity wrapping occurs as the spatial frequency content of moving scatterers wraps across the Nyquist sampling upper limit. In this case the scatterers are mapped to the opposite image half plane and are therefore represented as moving in the opposite direction. Phase unwrapping techniques similar to those used for DOCT can be applied for a singly wrapped velocity profile. Higher spatial frequencies that wrap across Nyquist and have components greater than the threshold frequency f will necessarily lose their velocity components due to SPFI windowing. This fundamentally limits the resolvable spatial frequency range to twice the Nyquist frequency.

By way of specific example SPFI SDOCT can implemented on a high speed SDOCT microscope having a specific central wavelength e.g. at about 859 nm and a FWHM bandwidth e.g. about 99 nm an arrangement for which is shown in . The sample arm can be a microscope e.g. a custom built f 8.5 microscope equipped with scanning galvanometers and imaging optics optimized for a given spot size e.g. about 9 m . SPFI data can be created using both conventional and common path SDOCT configurations by blocking the reference arm of a typical SDOCT interferometer to implement a self referenced imaging scheme to reduce phase noise such that fis dominated by lateral sampling. Phase noise between sequential A scans in a homogeneous phantom can be measured in both conventional and common path configurations. Since the lower limit of the resolving power in SPFI is proportional to the phase noise the common path configuration can be used for animal model imaging. Interferometric signals can be captured using a line scan camera e.g. a 2048 pixel line scan camera from e2v Ltd. . Real time data acquisition processing archiving and display can be performed for instance by using a software product e.g. a custom software program from Bioptigen Inc. . For example using a 1.3 mW sample beam the SNR measured near DC can be 108 dB with an axial resolution of 3.29 m in tissue and a 6 dB falloff at 0.8 mm. DC removal k space resampling and flow imaging using the modified Hilbert transform algorithm can further be computed during post processing e.g. using Matlab from MathWorks Inc. . In addition vessel and structure can be visualized e.g. using Amira from Visage Imaging Inc. .

In another aspect the disclosed methods can be specifically applied to retinal microvessel imaging. Velocity resolved SPFI SDOCT can be implemented on a high speed SDOCT retinal imaging system employing a light source with a given central wavelength e.g. about 859 nm and a given FWHM bandwidth e.g. about 99 nm an arrangement for which is illustrated in . The sample arm can be a modified slit lamp equipped with scanning galvanometers and relay optics for retinal imaging of subjects. The retinal scanner optics can be designed for a particular transverse resolution e.g. about 15 20 m as limited by the optics of the eye across a field e.g. about 12 12 mm . The reference arm can be dispersion compensated using a water cell and matched optics and interferometric signals can be captured using a line scan camera e.g. a 2048 pixel line scan camera from e2v Ltd. . Data acquisition archiving and real time processing and display of image magnitude can be performed such as by a custom software program. In particular using a 700 W sample beam the SNR measured near DC can be 110 dB with an axial resolution of 4.72 m in tissue and a 6 dB falloff at 0.8 mm. DC removal k space resampling and flow imaging using the modified Hilbert transform algorithm can be computed during post processing e.g. by using Matlab . Vessels and structure can be visualized e.g. using Amira and OSA ISP from Kitware Inc. .

Further velocity resolved bidirectional flow imaging can be validated and compared with conventional DOCT on a flow phantom See e.g. . In particular two glass micro capillary tubes e.g. 1.5 mm outer diameter 0.6 mm inner diameter can be connected using silastic tubing to a syringe pump and pumped with 1 liposyn at one or more of 10 L min 20 L min 30 L min and 40 L min. The micro capillaries can then be positioned adjacent to each other on an angled stage such that fluid in the tubes flows in opposite directions in a B scan cross section as is shown in through simulating bidirectional flow.

A standard minimum B scan size of 1000 A scans frame for a 3 mm lateral scan at an integration time of 50 s is assumed. Faster lateral scan velocities can result in galvanometer jitter and therefore poor image quality and phase stability. Spatial oversampling for SPFI is defined based on these scan parameters in the following. A 3 mm B scan can be acquired with 1800 A scans frame with an A scan integration period of 50 s a factor of 1.8 increase in lateral oversampling. Conventional SDOCT processing See e.g. can show depth ranged reflectivity of scatterers including structure flow and their complex conjugate mirror images. The directionality of flow in each tube is not readily discernable using conventional processing steps FIG. arrows and . After applying the modified Hilbert transform algorithm all non moving scatterer reflectivities i.e. structure and mirror images of flow can be resolved leaving only positive and negative flow on opposite image half planes See e.g. . The phantom structural heterogeneity can be band limited as a result of lateral oversampling allowing the frequency shifted Heaviside function to window out only moving scatterers Eq. 6 .

Similarly the mirror images of moving scatterers can also be eliminated by application of the modified Hilbert transform leaving only the real valued positive flow and complex conjugate negative flow which can be imaged to opposite sides of DC See e.g. . Using the SPFI processed image positive and negative flow are separated and overlaid onto the structural image for visualization See e.g. . Given the oversampling parameters and the threshold frequency determined experimentally from the phantom data the magnitude of the detectable positive and negative flow velocities can be about 0.39 1.12 mm s.

In another exemplary arrangement B scans of the phantom can be acquired across a 2 mm scan range with 2500 A scans frame for SPFI and 1000 A scans frame with 4 sequential A scans at each lateral position for DOCT. The SPFI dataset can be laterally oversampled compared to DOCT because velocity resolution increases as a function of spot size overlap on the sample Eq. 8 . Both datasets can be acquired with an integration time of 50 s. At these sampling parameters the total imaging time for SPFI can be a factor of 1.6 times faster than that of DOCT. SPFI parameters can be chosen to demonstrate velocity resolution at the lower limit of the detection range for a given integration time as a comparison with DOCT. Since the velocity resolution of DOCT is limited by the phase noise of the system instead of spatial sampling parameters as is the case with SPFI an appropriate lateral spacing can be used to minimize scanner jitter. The number of sequential A scans used can be indicative of common DOCT sampling parameters.

In addition a threshold frequency can be determined which can filter out all spatial frequencies of non moving scatterers. A Gaussian window can then be moved across the remaining spatial frequencies to velocity resolve the B scan for flow rate measurements. The shifted window can be set such that the velocity range resolved has a FWHM and shifts at increments of 24.3 m s. Given the oversampling parameters and threshold frequency window used the magnitude of the total detectable velocity range for the axial components of positive and negative velocities can be about 0.61 11.53 mm s. Velocity resolved scatterer information can then be overlaid onto structural B scans for visualization See e.g. . DOCT volumes can be processed using standard phase difference methods. Velocity profiles for both DOCT See e.g. and and SPFI See e.g. and can be fit to laminar flow curves and measured capillary cross section and flow rate can be calculated for both imaging methods and compared See e.g. and .

Vessel imaging can also be demonstrated on chicken embryo and mouse tumor window chamber models See e.g. and . In particular fertilized Hubert Ross chicken eggs can be incubated at 38 C. and 97 humidity in a forced draft incubation chamber. A 3 mm 3 mm volume mosaic was created by acquiring nine 1 mm 1 mm volumes imaged with 1800 A scans frame and 100 frames volume a factor of 5.4 increase in lateral oversampling. At Hamburger Hamilton HH stages 23 25 a window can be created through the outer shell and the chorionic membrane can be removed. Peripheral yolk vasculature See e.g. can then be imaged using the commonpath configuration with the top amnion surface as the reference reflector. Vessels away from the embryo can be imaged to avoid pulsatile flow as a result of heart beat. Embryo temperatures can be maintained using a heat lamp during the course of imaging. Each SPFI SDOCT reconstructed frame can be separated into two halves and combined to create bidirectional flow maps with intensities corresponding to the reflectivity of scatterers moving into or out of the A scan axis.

The peripheral yolk vascular network shown in is clearly visible in the chicken embryo model. SPFI SDOCT imaged vessels are tubular as expected and appear to be confined to a 500 m layer See e.g. . The large and partially imaged vessel across the volume mosaic See arrow is a shadow artifact arising from imaging through a large vessel in the amionic i.e. the reference reflector layer. The well defined portion of this vessel See arrow represents areas where the vessel branches from the yolk surface up towards the surface of the amnion. The faded regions See arrow are areas where the vessel is on top of the amion surface and out of the imaging depth range. Yolk surface vessels follow the curvature of the yolk sac and are shown gradually descending away from the reference surface See . Detected vessel sizes ranged from 40 m arrow to 270 m arrow . Hazy sections arrow are indicative of sample bulk motion which resulted in non moving structural scatterers being resolved along with flow. Chicken embryo volumes were acquired using 1 ms A scan integration time in order to detect small vessels with minimal flow velocities. The magnitude of the detectable positive and negative flow velocities for the embryo model was 65.6 168.6 m s.

Mouse tumor models can be prepared by surgically implanting a titanium window chamber on the back of anthymic nu nu nude mice under anesthesia ketamine 100 mg kg and xylazine 10 mg kg intraperitoneal . 4T1 metastatic mouse mammary adenocarcinoma cells can be used. During window implantation 10 L of a cell suspension of 5 103 cells can be injected into the dorsal skin flap and covered with a 12 mm diameter 2 round glass coverslip over the exposed skin See e.g. . Animals can be housed in an environmental chamber with free access to food and water and standard 12 hr light and dark cycles. Mice tumors were imaged two weeks after implantation using the window chamber surface as a reference reflector. Mice can be imaged using the commonpath configuration self referenced using the surface of the window chamber as the reference reflector. Tumor regions were indentified prior to imaging See e.g. arrow and show highly tortuous vessels indicative of neoplastic angiogenesis. Surrounding vasculature indicate normal skin fold vessels. Detected vessel sizes ranged from 20 m See e.g. arrow which approaches the sampling limit of the microscope to 110 m See e.g. arrow . The volumes were acquired using 2 ms A scan integration time in order to detect small vessels however these volumes were more sensitive to bulk motion artifacts See arrow . The magnitude of the detectable positive and negative flow velocities for the mouse tumor model was 32.8 84.3 m s. Small noise signals throughout the volumes indicate areas of reference reflector saturation due to small optical reflectivity heterogeneities across the reference window chamber surface.

In vivo microvessel imaging can further be demonstrated in a normal human retina. First an OCT volume of the subject e.g. a 10 10 mm volume can be acquired allowing for the reconstruction of a standard OCT summed voxel projection SVP to use as an atlas to locate smaller volumes imaged using SPFI which is shown in . Several volumes e.g. 2 2 mm volumes can then be densely sampled using SPFI parameters e.g. 2500 A scans frame 100 frames volume 100 s integration time 25 s total imaging time at several locations across the macula See e.g. and including landmarks such as the fovea See e.g. and optic nerve See e.g. . Given the sampling parameters threshold frequency and assuming a 20 m scanning beam spot size on the retina the detectable velocity range for axially moving scatterers can be about 0.45 8.64 mm s. Parameters can be set for a lower velocity range compared to flow phantoms to adequately detect slow flow in small foveal vessels e.g. 

It is understood that SPFI acquisition of the entire macula in a single volume dataset would be impractical. Since velocity resolution and lateral sampling density are coupled in SPFI by Eq. 8 an order of magnitude increase in the lateral sampling density i.e. A scans frame would be required. This requirement can limit the SPFI sampling volume size by both the available memory in the acquisition software and total imaging time.

Depth resolved vessel maps for each volume can be first reconstructed and overlaid onto structural OCT data to distinguish macular vasculature See through . Total blood flow measurements can then be calculated for a single 2 2 mm volume of the fovea See . The structural OCT data can show the foveal pit and the associated SPFI vascular map can confirm its location by resolving a circular avascular zone surrounded by a set of terminal capillaries. First the resolved vessels in the volume can be identified as arteries and veins using the flow directionality information calculated by SPFI See . Vessel orientation and Doppler angle can then be measured for all 17 resolved vessels and velocity profiles can be measured at a single point for each vessel See e.g. dots . Doppler angles can be measured by calculating the vessel cross section displacement across sequential B scans in the 3D datasets. The velocity profiles can then be fit to laminar flow curves to determine both the peak velocity and diameter of each vessel. Finally the vessel size orientation and velocity information can be used to calculated the total foveal blood flow. A representative B scan See e.g. taken across the foveal volume dotted line in is shown with velocity resolved flow content overlaid on top of the structural image. The velocity profiles and parabolic fits for each of the vessels are included See through to show the strong correlation between velocities measured using SPFI and their respective laminar flow velocity profiles mean R2 0.95 . Closer inspection of vessel See shows a blunted parabolic velocity profile characteristic of red blood cell aggregation in microvasculature consistent with rheological observations.

A summary of the size peak velocity and flow measurements for all vessels identified in a representative 2 2 mm foveal volume are shown in Table 1 below veins identified by . In this representative volume the smallest resolvable vessel was 13.64 m which is at the resolution limit of the retinal SDOCT system. The average measured foveal vessel diameter is about 22 m and average arterial flow velocity is greater than average venous flow velocity which is supported by similar measurements made using LDV. The detected velocities range from 5.97 30.22 mm s concurrent with human retinal vessels in the corresponding size range also measured using LDV. Finally the total arterial and venous flow show a net inflow of blood into the fovea. This can be a result of the presence of unresolved veins in the volume and expected errors from measurements of vessel orientation angle and calculation of diameter which would significantly impact blood flow calculations.

While SPFI allows for velocity resolved volumetric blood flow imaging with velocity resolution comparable to that of DOCT there are several differences between the modalities that can be noted. Since velocity resolution and spatial oversampling are coupled this allows for the flexibility to set sampling parameters to a desired velocity range. This flexibility would allow for improved data acquisition speeds over DOCT for imaging of small spatial volumes of moderately high flow velocities but could potentially require longer scanning times for large scan areas with low flow. As discussed previously the velocity resolving power of SPFI falls off at the lower limits of velocity detection as compared to DOCT but is comparable for high flow velocities. Since velocity resolved SPFI requires a sliding spatial frequency window this increases the number of Fourier transforms required by the number of velocity increments desired. However this increase in computational complexity is essentially trivial since FFT algorithms can be optimized and the transforms can be parallelized. Finally it has been shown that spatial frequency filtering results in a sensitivity improvement which gives SPFI a detection advantage over DOCT for small vessels at the resolution limit of the imaging system. The overall advantage of SPFI over DOCT is in its improved sensitivity and customizability over velocity resolution velocity range and acquisition time in exchange for small increases in computational complexity.

The present subject matter can be embodied in other forms without departure from the spirit and essential characteristics thereof. The embodiments described therefore are to be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive. Although the present subject matter has been described in terms of certain preferred embodiments other embodiments that are apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art are also within the scope of the present subject matter.

