---

title: System and method for phase locking multiple oscillators
abstract: Multiple microwave oscillators can be phase locked such that the power output of multiple oscillators can be coherently combined to achieve a single output which has the total sum power of the multiple oscillators. Multiple oscillators assembled in a power combining array are phase locked using a locking signal provided at each oscillator via strategic placement of a partial obstruction between combined multiple oscillators and a load. This locking signal includes a minimum threshold level and preselected phase. A method for phase locking multiple microwave oscillators includes steps of combining power output of multiple microwave oscillators to achieve a single output to a load and inserting a partial obstruction between said at least two multiple oscillators and said load. The partial obstruction configured to provide a combined microwave oscillator signal including a minimum threshold and preselected phase.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07952439&OS=07952439&RS=07952439
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Air Force
number: 07952439
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20091123
---
The conditions under which this invention was made are such as to entitle the Government of the United States under paragraph 1 a of Executive Order 10096 as represented by the Secretary of the Air Force to the entire right title and interest therein including foreign rights.

Embodiments of the present invention are generally related to the field of microwave oscillators. More particularly embodiments of the present invention are related to systems and methods for phase locking multiple microwave oscillators so that power output levels can be coherently combined to achieve a single output from a total sum of multiple oscillators.

There are a variety of high power microwave applications that require a power level that is in excess of the highest power available from a single microwave source. To fulfill such needs the logical approach is to combine the power of a sufficient number of the highest power available sources. In order to satisfactorily combine sources it is necessary that they be at the same frequency and phase i.e. that they be phase locked . The commonest combining method of phase locked microwave sources well known to those skilled in the art is via an assembly of four port hybrid components such as the magic tee the side wall dB coupler or the top wall dB coupler . In the case of the magic tee if the phase locked inputs are of equal magnitude in phase and applied to ports and then the combined power of and will exit port and no power will exit port . For the side wall dB coupler if the phase locked inputs are of equal magnitude and source lags source by 90 degrees j then the combined power of and will exit port and no power will exit port . For the top wall dB coupler if the phase locked inputs are of equal magnitude and source leads source by 90 degrees j then the combined power of and will exit port and no power will exit port . In all cases if the phase locked sources are not equal in magnitude and or the phase relations are not as stated above then some of the power will exit port and some will exit port . The exact amount is determined by applying the respective amplitudes and phases of the sources to the appropriate scattering matrix. The discussion following refers to the magic tee but it could equally apply to the other two combiners with appropriate consideration for their scattering matrices.

Referring to the Magic Tee in if microwave power P at phase is applied to port P at phase is applied to port and both are at the same frequency then the power exiting port is 

Equations 1 and 2 show that if P P and the phase difference is zero then the total power P P exits port and zero power exits port . According to Equation 2 if P is not equal to P and or is not equal to then less than the total power exits port and the remaining power exits port . To efficiently employ the magic tee to combine the power from two sources it is essential that both the power levels and phases applied to ports and are substantially equal which is possible if the amplitudes are equal and they are phase locked.

If the complex signal amplitudes A and A corresponding to the powers P and P applied to ports and are not phase locked then the power from each behaves independently and in accordance with the mathematical expression of the following scattering matrix 

Specifically the P power divides equally between port and port and the P power divides equally between port and port . No power is cross coupled between ports and provided that ports and are match terminated.

A magic tee arrangement can provide a means for combining the power from two phase locked sources. A combination of magic tees provide the means for combining the power from any number of phase locked sources with the constraint that the total number is 2 n being an integer. The effectiveness or efficiency of the combination is determined by the application of Equations 1 and 2. It is obvious that the best results can occur when the sources are as identical as possible in both amplitude and phase.

An example of an array of 3 magic tees for the combination of 4 sources M M is shown in . Ports of the magic tees are terminated in matched loads L to dissipate the power resulting from any possible mismatches of power and or phase of the sources. The combined power exits from port of the magic tee labeled T and any power due to mismatches exits to port into the matched termination.

In order to successfully combine oscillator power in a magic tee array some means must be employed to accomplish the phase locking of the input sources. Phase locked sources fall into two general categories master oscillator power amplifiers MOPA and phase locked oscillators. The MOPA types include klystrons traveling wave tubes TWT various cross field amplifiers CFA such as amplitrons and solid state amplifiers. The phase locking of the MOPA configuration is accomplished by the master oscillator providing the same phase drive to each of the amplifiers. The present invention does not apply to MOPA type sources but only to phase locked oscillators. Thus in addition to the assembly of magic tees shown in there must also be a means for achieving the phase locking of the four oscillators.

The theory of phase locked oscillators is well documented in the art. Early examples of the implementation of phase locking and power combining of magnetrons have been demonstrated. The magnetron is the most common high power microwave oscillator used in a phase locked applications and has the advantage of being the most efficient of the oscillator types. The theory and practice of phase locked oscillators extends from the early 1900 s and the basic principle of operation is based on providing a cross coupling signal between the oscillators with the proper phase at a greater than threshold amplitude.

Means of providing the cross coupled signal has heretofore been a complicated array of waveguide components in addition to the power combining array. An example of such an apparatus is shown in . The apparatus shown in includes both the power combining magic tee and the components required to accomplish the phase locking of the two magnetrons M and M. The phase locking is accomplished by the use of circulators and and directional couplers and . A sample of the power output from the magnetrons M and M is obtained by means of the couplers and . The sample is then injected by means of the circulators and into the magnetrons M and M. The magnetrons are thus cross coupled with sample signals of the appropriate amplitude and phase to accomplish phase locking Respectively referenced the outputs of the phase locked magnetrons M and M are passed through the circulators and and then to the input ports of the magic tee ports and where they combine and exit through port to the load.

Other configurations for phase locking and power combining are known in the art each requiring considerable additional apparatus to accomplish the phase locking with respect to the power combining apparatus. What is still needed in the art is a simpler and more efficient means for phase locking multiple microwave oscillators such that the power output of several oscillators can be coherently combined to achieve a single output which has the total sum power of the multiple oscillators.

The following summary is provided to facilitate an understanding of some of the innovative features unique to the present invention and is not intended to be a full description. A full appreciation of the various aspects of the embodiments disclosed herein can be gained by taking the entire specification claims drawings and abstract as a whole.

It is a feature of the present invention to provide a simple and efficient means of phase locking multiple microwave oscillators such that the power output of several oscillators can be coherently combined to achieve a single output which has the total sum power of the multiple oscillators.

In accordance with features of the present invention at least two multiple oscillators assembled in a power combining array a load and a partial obstruction inserted between said at least two multiple oscillators and said load and configured to provide a locking signal including a minimum threshold and preselected phase.

In accordance with a method of the present invention microwave oscillators are phased locked by combining the power output of multiple microwave oscillators to achieve a single output to a load and inserting a partial obstruction between said at least two multiple oscillators and said load. The partial obstruction is further configured to provide a combined microwave oscillator signal including a minimum threshold and preselected phase. The signal reflected from the partial obstruction flows back to each of the multiple oscillators with the same amplitude and phase and provides the injection locking signal to accomplish the phase locking of the multiple oscillators.

The particular values and configurations discussed in these illustrative examples can be varied and are cited merely to illustrate at least one embodiment and are not intended to limit the scope of such embodiments.

The invention is a modification of the magic tee power combiner previously described to accomplish cross coupling in both phase and magnitude. A similar modification to a side wall dB coupler or a top wall dB coupler will produce results similar to that for a magic tee. In its basic form a single magic tee with two sources can be used for the invention. Referring to it is an inherent characteristic of a magic tee that a signal entering port is propagated through the tee and divided equally in power but keeping the same phase to ports and . None of this power is propagated to port . With normal utilization of a magic tee the output port would be delivered to a matched load in such a manner that there would be no reflection back into port . If however the output from port is not matched power will reflect back into port and propagate as described to ports and . The extent of apparatus required to accomplish the mismatch is insignificant compared to that used historically in the prior art. Furthermore the amount of power required to accomplish the phase locking is the same regardless of the means used to accomplish it. The power level can be in the range of 13 dB to 40 dB relative to the rated power. This range of power levels is consistent with the early work of Richard Adler as published in the Proceedings of the Institute of Radio Engineers 1946 pp 351 377. This power level is typically measured at the input reference plane of the magnetron. The level of the locking power signal has a strong dependence on the difference between the natural oscillation frequencies of the two or more sources. This frequency spread is typically less than 0.5 corresponding to the previously stated power level range. Thus the power required to phase lock is less that a maximum of 5 and therefore insignificant in terms of affecting the over all efficiency of the total system.

In accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention a partial obstruction with a reflection coefficient is inserted between port and the matched load L to create a deliberate mismatch. The mismatch can be accomplished by any of several types of partial obstructions in the wave guide. Such an object results in a complex reflection coefficient. The reflected signal has a specific amplitude and phase designated as equivalently expressible as e. The phase due to the waveguide length between the reference plane of the partial obstruction and the reference plane of the oscillator is designated as . The total phase difference between the oscillator and the partial obstruction is the sum as indicated in .

The phase path from source to the partial obstruction and from source to the partial obstruction must each be an integral number of wavelengths. The phase path can include the phase associated with the partial obstruction r and the phase length of the respective waveguide . Furthermore these phase paths must an integral number of wave lengths. Thus the critical location or effective phase of the partial obstruction can be reckoned by both the waveguide distance and the phase component due to the complex reflection coefficient of the partial obstruction. Specifically r must have an electrical phase length equal to n2 radians where n is an integer.

A post is an example of one of the many possible suitable partial obstructions and is illustrated in . For example the inventors determined the attenuation and phase of a one inch diameter post with the center positioned over the range of 1.1 to 2.5 inches from the wall results of which are plotted in . The waveguide used during testing was a WR 975 waveguide operating at a frequency of 917 MHz.

From experimental data the typical amplitude reflection required to maintain the phase lock of magnetrons was determined to be in the range of 20 dB to 40 dB. As shown by this reflection level can be easily obtained using a 1 diameter post with the center about 0.5 from the waveguide wall. The phase shown in is relative to the plane at the center of the post. The total phase from the post includes this value plus the electrical phase length from the center of the post to the phase reference plane at the oscillator. As previously noted above this total phase should be n2 radians to accomplish phase locking.

For example if PdB 30 using Equation 3 then 0.0631 or 24 dB. After phase lock is accomplished the power exiting port is increased by 3 dB because of the phase lock thus the power now being returned to M and M is 3 dB higher or 21 dB which increases the stability of the phase lock of the pair M and M and the pair M and M. The basis of the dB figures is the power output of one magnetron either M or M assumed to be equal. Following the same rationale the reflection from the partial obstruction downstream of port of Twould be such that the power from Tthat is passed through Tand reflected from the partial obstruction downstream of port of T back to port of T is equal to PdB plus 3 dB. Since the input to port of Tis 3 dB higher than the input to port of T then the partial obstruction characteristics of should be the same as except that the power handling rating is 3 dB higher. Given the foregoing those skilled in the art should now appreciate that the process can be extended to more levels of magic tees and the required partial obstruction in port will be the same except for an increase of 3 dB in the power rating for each successive level.

The configuration of can be simplified and the same phase locking and power combining accomplished by using only a single partial obstruction at the output of tee T as shown in . In this configuration the reflection coefficient required to provide PdB to each magnetron before any phase locking occurs is determined as follows. The power from M must pass through Tand Tto reach then must travel back through Tand Tor Tto reach another magnetron. Thus the total power loss is PdB plus 12 dB. The reflection coefficient can therefore be determined given the following Equation 4 

Given Equation 4 if the value of PdB 30 then for the case shown in is 0.1259 or 18 dB. Although the is 6 dB more than the reflection of in the case of which has partial obstructions the overall total reflection is the same.

The simpler configuration in compared to that of reduces the number of partial obstructions to one instead of three and is therefore preferred. Extensions to greater numbers follow the same procedure.

Some clear advantages of the invention are that 1 instead of using a complex external waveguide structure to provide the phase locking signal as in the prior art the invention uses the existing magic tee power combiner structure plus a simple partial reflecting obstruction located within the assembly and 2 the power combining features of the magic tee array provides precise requirements for distributing the locking signals in the reverse direction with the proper phase and amplitude balance as required to sustain the phase lock of the oscillators. The invention may be implemented with a partial obstruction at each level of the magic tee array or with a single partial obstruction at the last output port of the final tee. The single obstruction at the output configuration is smaller and lighter and is the preferred embodiment.

Although the post type partial obstruction was used to explain the invention it should now be appreciated that the same results can be obtained using a post that does not extend entirely across the waveguide and that can be adjusted by the amount it is inserted. Other partial obstructions can be used such as pieces of dielectric or various partial obstructions that extend a partial distance across the waveguide. Any total number of oscillators can be phase locked and power combined provided that that number is a power of 2 i.e. 2 where n is an integer. An array of 8 magnetrons using the invention with a single partial obstruction at the output of the final magic tee assembly has been successfully built and tested. The single partial obstruction was set to 10 dB and produced a very solid lock. Based on the above analysis the locking signal delivered to the magnetrons before locking occurs is 28 dB. It is possible that locking could be reliably obtained with the partial obstruction set to a lower power reflection.

It will be appreciated that variations of the above disclosed and other features and functions or alternatives thereof may be desirably combined into many other different systems or applications. Also that various presently unforeseen or unanticipated alternatives modifications variations or improvements therein may be subsequently made by those skilled in the art which are also intended to be encompassed by the following claims.

