---

title: Arrangement for fueling a water vessel
abstract: A method and apparatus for securing and fueling a surface water vessel at a floating station, attached to and remote from a parent ship. The surface water vessel may be an unmanned surface vehicle, for example. According to the invention, the surface water vessel includes a probe and the floating station includes an opening for receiving the probe therein. The floating station includes a fuel-delivering arrangement for feeding fuel from the parent ship to the water vessel.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08356567&OS=08356567&RS=08356567
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08356567
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090930
---
This is application is a continuation in part of U.S. nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 12 079 063 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 020 505 hereby incorporated by reference entitled Probe Receiver Device for Recovering Surface Water Vessels filed Mar. 3 2008.

This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 268 656 filed May 19 2009 which is incorporated herein by reference.

The following description was made in the performance of official duties by employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the claimed invention may be manufactured used licensed by or for the United States Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon.

The following description relates generally to an apparatus for fueling a surface water vessel and in particular an arrangement for latching and fueling a surface water vessel at a floating station that is remote from a parent ship.

The recovery of smaller surface water vessels such as manned or unmanned surface water vessels USVs by larger parent ships is an emerging technology. Once recovered by the parent ship servicing operations such as fueling may be performed. Typically the recovery of a smaller vessel is accomplished by driving the smaller vessel alongside a stationary parent ship and lifted by davit into the ship. Alternatively the smaller water vessel may be driven up a ramp into the larger ship.

Traditional methods of capturing smaller surface water vessels can cause damage to the hull of the smaller vessel. For example some USVs weigh about 20 000 lbs and are made from materials such as aluminum. A capturing method that for example requires the USV to be driven into a parent ship or be lifted and dropped onto the parent ship can cause damage to the aluminum hull resulting in expensive repairs. The prior art does not teach a method and apparatus that captures the smaller vessel in a controlled manner away from the parent ship in order to perform servicing operations such as fueling.

In one aspect the invention is a fueling system for securing and fueling a water vessel at a floating station. The fueling system includes a parent ship having a fuel supply and a pump for delivering fuel from the fuel supply. The fueling system also includes a floating station remote from the parent ship. In this aspect the floating station includes a tow opening a fuel delivering arrangement connected to the fuel supply of the parent ship. The fuel delivering arrangement includes a hose and a hose feeder for feeding the hose. The fueling system further includes a water vessel having a bow end and a stern end. The water vessel has a latching probe extending from the bow end releasably latched within the tow opening of the floating station and a fueling port for receiving fuel via the fuel delivering arrangement.

As shown in the water vessel further includes a fueling port for receiving fuel from the parent ship via the floating station . The fueling port includes a port probe and a conduit relay . The port probe is at the front end of the fueling port and the conduit relay is the elongated portion of the fueling port that may extend the length of the water vessel towards a fuel tank . The port probe is hollow and may be made from a double braided semi rigid material and the conduit relay may be a metallic piping material such as aluminum or the like. Although the fuel tank is illustrated towards the stern end of the water vessel the fuel tank may be positioned at any desired location.

The fuel tank may include a fuel level sensor for monitoring the level of fuel in the tank . Fueling operations may be controlled based on the level of fuel in the tank . A known liquid level sensor may be used in tank. For example the sensor may be a two part sensor including a floating arm that floats at the surface of the fuel and a stationary arm that is fixed. Electrical contacts associated with both parts may communicate resistance changes based on the relative distances between the floating arm and the stationary arm.

The receiver flap is a pivotable flap which lays flat along the hull surface when closed. A flap actuator attached to the flap moves the flap in direction R into a deployed position. In a deployed position the receiver flap pivots upwards revealing a rectangular funnel like opening for receiving a fuel feeding hose from fuel delivering arrangement on the floating station . As will be outlined below the fuel feeding hose is snaked down through the deployed flap through to the conduit relay and into the tank after the latching probe is properly clamped within the latching arrangement of the floating station . The fueling port may also include one or more piping valves along the conduit relay the one or more piping valves sealing the conduit relay and regulating when a fuel hose can be fed through the conduit relay to the fuel tank .

The hose reel may include a hose reel sensor shown in for detecting when a predetermined length of the hose has been dispensed. The predetermined length is the length of the hose required to be unwound from the reel in order for the hose to properly snake through the fueling port and into the tank to allow for the safe and secure fueling of the water vessel . According to an embodiment of the invention the predetermined length is about 18 m. The sensor may be a ball clamp in combination with one or more electrical contacts. The ball clamp may be positioned so that when the predetermined length of hose is dispensed the ball clamp trips the one or more contacts thereby producing the desired signal.

In embodiments in which the water vessel is employed the funnel is movable in directions Xtowards the flap . Because of the positioning of the funnel on the floating station in relation to the deployed receiver flap of the water vessel when the latching probe is properly clamped within the latching arrangement the funnel is automatically vertically aligned with the flap . Thereafter the funnel actuator moves the funnel to a forward most position so that the funnel is adjacent to the receiver flap . The funnel sensor such as a photo sensor may be used to detect when the funnel is adjacent to the deployed receiver flap thereby creating a continuous hose feeding path. The continuous hose feeding path allows the hose to be fed from the funnel of the fuel delivering arrangement through the deployed flap opening of the water vessel . It should be noted that with the exception of the capturing of the probe within the funnel all aspects of the fueling operation between water vessel and the floating station are equally applicable to the fueling operations between the water vessel and the floating station .

The operation of the system is hereby outlined. As shown in the fueling system includes a parent ship a floating station that is remote from the parent ship and a water vessel . As noted above water vessel may be alternatively used in the system . The floating station receives fuel from the parent ship via the conduit . This fuel may be delivered to the water vessel through the hose located at the floating station. In operation the water vessel approaches the floating station in the direction Xto be latched therein where servicing operations such as fueling may commence. The water vessel is latched to the floating station when the probe at the hull of the vessel is fully inserted into the tow opening of the latching device and properly clamped within the latching arrangement . The latching of the probe within the latching device serves to vertically align the funnel with either the probe of vessel or the deployed receiver flap of vessel . Alternatively the funnel may be vertically adjustable if desired.

The latch sensor detects the proper latching of the probe in the latching device and transmits a signal to the controller indicating that the water vessel is properly secured to the floating station. The sensor may be a movable mechanical arm or poppet that is pushed in a predetermined direction only when the probe is securely clamped in the latching arrangement. If fueling is desired a user may input a fuel command signal via the input device initiating the fueling process. The user may enter this command before or after the water vessel has been secured at the floating station. However fueling would only be initiated after the controller receives a signal indicating that the vessel is properly secured.

In response to the user input and the signal from sensor the controller initiates the funnel actuator which moves the funnel in the direction Xto an extended position. In the embodiment in which water vessel is employed as the funnel moves in direction X the funnel captures the hollow port probe within as shown in . As stated above the funnel sensor which may be a photosensor detects when the hollow port probe is fully captured within the funnel . When the hollow port probe is fully captured a continuous hose passage is formed between the funnel and the fueling port allowing for the smooth feeding of the hose from fuel delivering arrangement to the water vessel . In response to a fully captured signal by the funnel sensor the controller initiates the hose drive which then feeds the hose from around the hose reel through the funnel into the fueling port i.e. through the hollow port probe and the conduit relay into the fuel tank of the water vessel .

Alternatively in the embodiment in which water vessel is employed when fueling is initiated the funnel moves in direction X towards the receiver flap of the vessel to position the funnel adjacent to the receiver flap . Before the funnel is moved to the forward in direction X the receiver flap may be pivoted to the deployed position in response to either the controller or the user input via device . The funnel sensor which may be a photosensor detects when the funnel is positioned adjacent to the deployed receiver flap thereby creating a continuous hose path formed between the funnel and the flap allowing for the smooth feeding of the hose from fuel delivering arrangement to the water vessel . When the funnel sensor signals that funnel has attained a working position adjacent to the flap the controller initiates the hose drive which then feeds the hose from around the hose reel through the funnel into the fueling port and into the fuel tank of the water vessel .

In all system embodiments i.e. employing either water vessel or water vessel the hose is fed only to a predetermined length i.e. a length that enables the hose to reach the fuel tank and to properly fill the tank with the fuel. As stated above the hose reel includes a hose reel sensor which may be a ball clamp in combination with one or more electrical contacts. The ball clamp may be positioned so that when the predetermined length of hose is dispensed the ball clamp trips the one or more contacts thereby producing the desired signal terminating the feeding of the hose . As shown in water vessels and may each include one or more piping valves . Thus when piping valves are included the controller opens these one or more valves to allow the hose into the respective fueling ports.

In response to the termination of the feeding of the hose the controller actuates the pump on the parent ship . As stated above the pump may be a 1.5 HP high head centrifugal pump capable of supplying about 27 gallons per minute at about 65 psi. The pump begins pumping fuel from the parent ship tank to the floating station which is received by the fuel delivering arrangement . The fuel is then fed through the hose to the fuel tank in water vessel . As stated above the hose may include a delivery valve that opens at a predetermined supply pressure of about 5 psi.

The fuel level sensor detects when the fuel level in the tank reaches a full level and transmits to the controller a signal indicating that the tank is full. In response to this signal the controller cuts off the pump and terminates the delivery of fuel. Additionally the controller actuates the hose drive which reverses rotation direction and pulls the hose from the fueling port . The hose is thus rewound about the hose reel . This ends the fueling operation after which the water vessel may be retained for towing or for further servicing operations or the alternatively the water vessel may be released by unlatching and withdrawing the probe from the latching device .

What has been described and illustrated herein are preferred embodiments of the invention along with some variations. The terms descriptions and figures used herein are set forth by way of illustration only and are not meant as limitations. Those skilled in the art will recognize that many variations are possible within the spirit and scope of the invention which is intended to be defined by the following claims and their equivalents in which all terms are meant in their broadest reasonable sense unless otherwise indicated.

