---

title: Indole compounds useful as serotonin selective agents
abstract: Novel indole compounds are disclosed. Also disclosed are methods for using the compounds to treat human and animal disease, pharmaceutical compositions of the compounds, and kits including the compounds.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08071786&OS=08071786&RS=08071786
owner: Galenea Corp.
number: 08071786
owner_city: Cambridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20091214
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 237 318 filed Sep. 27 2005 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 613 944 filed Sep. 27 2004 the contents of each of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The invention was made at least in part with National Institutes of Health grants 1 R43 MH63529 01 A1 and 5 R43 DK065322 02. The U.S. Government may have certain rights in the invention.

This invention relates to novel indole compounds and their use as selective agents at serotonin receptors.

Serotonin 5 hydroxytryptamine 5 HT plays a significant role in influencing a large number of central and peripheral processes. 5 HT selective pharmacotherapies have been developed to treat a wide variety of medical problems including depression anxiety schizophrenia migraine emesis and appetite control Annual Reports in Medicinal Chemistry Volume 32 2002 Academic Press Fitzgerald L. Ennis M. 5 HTReceptor Modulators Progress in Development of New CNS Medicines pp 21 30 . 5 HT exerts its influence through activation of fourteen distinct receptor subtypes in seven separate families. There is particular interest in the three receptor subtypes of the 5 HTfamily 5 HT 5 HT and 5 HT. Modulation of the 5 HTreceptor subtype has been shown to play a role in numerous human diseases including obesity obsessive compulsive disorder OCD sexual dysfunction epilepsy schizophrenia and anxiety disorders Roth B. Shapiro D. Insights into the Structure and Function of 5 HT2 Family Serotonin Receptors Reveal Novel Strategies for Therapeutic Target Development 2001 5 685 Martin J. Bos M. Jenck F. Moreau J I. Mutel V. Sleight A. Wichmann J. Andrews J. Berendsen H. Broekkamp C. Ruight G. Kohler C. van Delft A. 5 HTReceptor Agonists Pharmacological Characteristics and Therapeutic Potential 1998 286 913 . However the transmembrane sequence homology between the 5 HTreceptor and the 5 HTand 5 HTreceptors is high Bickerdike M. Vickers S. Dourish C. 5 HTReceptor Modulation and the Treatment of Obesity 1999 1 207 Glennon R. Dukat M. El Bermawy M. Law H. De Los Angeles J. Teitler M. King A. Herrick Davis K. Influence of Amine Substituents on 5 HTversus 5 HTBinding of Phenylalkyl and Indolylalkylamines 1994 37 1929 . Thus selectivity for the 5 HTreceptor can be difficult to obtain however such selectivity is important from a drug development standpoint. 5 HTreceptor agonists are associated with heart valve toxicity Rothman R. Baumann M. Savage J. Rauser L. McBride A. Hufeisen S. Roth B. L. Evidence for Possible Involvement of 5 HTReceptors in the Cardiac Valvulopathy Associated with Fenfluramine and other Serotonergic Medications 2000 102 2836 Fitzgerald L. Burn T. Brown B. Patterson J. Corjay M. Valentine P. Sun J H. Link J. Abbaszade I. Hollis J. Largent B. Hartig P. Hollis G. Meunier P. Robichaud A. Robertson D. Possible Role of Valvular Serotonin 5 HTReceptors in the Cardiopathy Associated with Fenfluramine 2000 57 75 and pulmonary hypertension Launay J. Herve P. Peoc h K. Tournois C. Callebert J. Nebigil C. Etienne N. Drouet L. Humbert M. Simonneau G. Maroteaux L. Function of the Serotonin 5 Hydroxytryptamine 2B Receptor in Pulmonary Hypertension 2002 8 1129 . However the 5 HTreceptor is found only in the CNS Bickerdike M. Vickers S. Dourish C. 5 HTReceptor Modulation and the Treatment of Obesity 1999 1 207 Martin J. Bos M. Jenck F. Moreau J I. Mutel V. Sleight A. Wichmann J. Andrews J. Berendsen H. Broekkamp C. Ruight G. Kohler C. van Delft A. 5 HTReceptor Agonists Pharmacological Characteristics and Therapeutic Potential 1998 286 913 and agonists that discriminate for 5 HTover 5 HTshould not display cardio or pulmonary toxicity. Selectivitiy for 5 HTover 5 HTreceptors is also important since agonists at 5 HTgenerally display undesirable hallucinogenic activity e.g. LSD psilocybin .

Psilocybin 4 phosphoryloxy N N dimethyltryptamine is an agonist at the 5 HTand 5 HTreceptors. Its binding potency at 5 HTcorrelates with its activity as a hallucinogen in humans Delgado P. L. Moreno F. A. Hallucinogens Serotonin and Obsessive Compulsive Disorder 1998 30 359 Perrin D. M. Hallucinogens and Obsessive Compulsive Disorder 1999 156 1123 Moreno F. A. Delgado P. L. Hallucinogen Induced Relief of Obsessions and Compulsions 1997 154 1037 . More than 40 years ago some derivatives of psilocybin were reported by workers at Sandoz Hofmann A. Troxler F. U.S. Pat. No. 3 075 992 U.S. Pat. No. 3 078 214 . This work was carried out prior to the ability to test for activity at specific serotonin receptor subtypes. More recently considerable effort has been made in seeking selective 5 HTreceptor ligands. The indole Ro 60 0175 Martin J. Bos M. Jenck F. Moreau J I. Mutel V. Sleight A. Wichmann J. Andrews J. Berendsen H. Broekkamp C. Ruight G. Kohler C. van Delft A. 5 HTReceptor Agonists Pharmacological Characteristics and Therapeutic Potential 1998 286 913 Bos M. Jenck F. Martin J. Moreau J I. Sleight A. Wichmann J. Widmer U. Novel Agonists of 5 HTReceptors. Synthesis and Biological Evaluation of Substituted 2 Indol 1 yl 1 methylethylamines and 2 Indeno 1 2 b pyrrol 1 methylethylamines Improved Therapeutics for Obsessive Compulsive Disorder 1997 45 2762 is 25 times more active at 5 HTas compared to 5 HT however it is not selective over 5 HTreceptors Bickerdike M. Vickers S. Dourish C. 5 HTReceptor Modulation and the Treatment of Obesity 1999 1 207 . Certain 1 methyl 5 substituted indoles reported by Lilly are selective 5 HTantagonists Audia J. Evrard D. Murdoch G. Droste J. Nissen J. Schenck K. Fludzinski Z. Lucaites V. Nelson D. Cohen M. Potent Selective Tetrahydro carboline Antagonists of the Serotonin 2B 5HT Contractile Receptor in the Rat Stomach Fundus 1996 39 2773 . Substituted indoles were reported by Vernalis to be highly selective agonists at 5 HTas compared to 5 HT American Chemical Society National Meeting Boston Mass. Aug. 18 22 2002 Poster Session Division of Medicinal Chemistry Wednesday morning August 21 344 349 . Wyeth has reported 5 HTagonists including WAY161503 that are active in an animal model of obesity Welmaker G. Nelson A. Sabalski J. Sabb A. Potoski J. Graziano D. Kagan M. Coupet J. Dunlop J. Mazandarani H. Rosenzwieg Lipson S. Sukoff S. Zhang Y. Synthesis and 5 hydroxytryptamine 5 HT activity of 2 3 4 4a tetrahydro 1H pyrazino 1 2 a quinoxalin 5 6H ones and 2 3 4 4a 5 6 hexahydro 1H pyrazino 1 2 a quinoxalines 2000 10 1991 . Yamanouchi has described indazole compounds including YM348 which are 5 HTagonists showing activity in an animal model of obesity Kimura Y. Hatanaka K. Naitou Y. Maeno K. Shimada I. Koakutsu A. Wanibuchi F. Yamaguchi T. Pharmacological profile of YM348 a novel potent and orally active 5 HT2C receptor agonist 2004 483 37 . Arena reports mCPP analogs active in vivo as potential obesity treatments Smith B. Smith J. Tsai J. Schultz J. Gilson C. Estrada S. Chen R. Park D. Prieto E. Gallardo C. Sengupta D. Thomsen W. Saldana H. Whelan K. Menzaghi F. Webb. R. Beeley N. Discovery and SAR of new benzazepines as potent and selective 5 HT 2C receptor agonists for the treatment of obesity 2005 15 1467 .

Obesity is one of the most important health problems currently affecting the U.S. population. The overweight suffer a significantly higher death rate as well as a much greater risk of developing many diseases including type 2 diabetes sleep apnea hypertension osteoarthritis and some forms of cancer. Exercise and diet modification allow some obese people to lose weight. However many others are unable to achieve lasting weight loss by such methods and pharmaceutical agents that promote satiety can be effective and appropriate treatments.

Considerable evidence has accumulated implicating 5 HTreceptor activation with appetite suppression. In 1995 transgenic mice lacking the 5 HTreceptor were shown to become obese Tecott L. Sun L. Akana S. Strack A. Lowenstein D. Dallman M. Julius D. Eating Disorder and Epilepsy in Mice Lacking 5 HTSerotonin Receptors 1995 374 542 . A clinical study in 1997 Sargent P. Sharpley A. Williams C. Cowen P. 5 HT Receptor Activation Decreases Appetite and Body Weight in Obese Subjects 1997 133 309 using meta chlorophenylpiperazine mCPP a 5 HTagonist has shown appetite reduction and weight loss in obese subjects. Furthermore selective 5 HTantagonists reduce or eliminate the anorexic effects of 5 HTagonists Kennett G. Wood M. Bright F. Trail B. Riley G. Holland K. Avenell K. Stean T. Upton N. Bromidge S. Forbes I. Middlemiss D. Blackburn T. SB242082 a Selective and Brain Penetrant 5 HTReceptor Antagonist 1997 36 609 . Fenfluramine is a non selective 5 HTreceptor agonist which together with phenteramine phen fen was marketed until recently as a highly effective appetite suppressant. The clinical effectiveness of fenfluramine as an appetite suppressant has been shown to be largely due to its activity as a 5 HTreceptor agonist Bickerdike M. Vickers S. Dourish C. 5 HTReceptor Modulation and the Treatment of Obesity 1999 1 207 Vickers S. Dourish C. Kennett G. Evidence that Hypophagia Induced by d Fenfluramine and d Norfenfluramine in the Rat is Mediated by 5 HTReceptors 2001 41 200 .

Obsessive Compulsive Disorder OCD is a mental illness involving persistent and distressing thoughts and actions that significantly interfere with normal life. OCD afflicts at least 1 2 of the population in the US and worldwide and is the fourth most common psychiatric diagnosis in the United States Delgado P. L. Moreno F. A. Hallucinogens Serotonin and Obsessive Compulsive Disorder 1998 30 359 Goodman W. K. Obsessive Compulsive Disorder Diagnosis and Treatment 1999 60 Suppl 18 27 . OCD is currently treated pharmacologically and or with psychotherapy. Current pharmacotherapy for OCD has significant limitations and the discovery of an improved medication for OCD would have considerable commercial potential.

Psilocybin a 5 HTreceptor agonist is currently in a Phase I clinical trial with OCD patients The New York Times Page D1 Mar. 13 2001 . Other 5 HTreceptor agonists are recognized as potential treatments for OCD Martin J. Bos M. Jenck F. Moreau J I. Mutel V. Sleight A. Wichmann J. Andrews J. Berendsen H. Broekkamp C. Ruight G. Kohler C. van Delft A. 5 HTReceptor Agonists Pharmacological Characteristics and Therapeutic Potential 1998 286 913 .

Other possible uses for 5 HTselective compounds include treatments for epilepsy Isaac M. Serotonergic 5 HT2C Receptors as a Potential Therapeutic Target for the Design Antiepileptic Drugs 2005 5 59 Alzheimer s disease Arjona A. Pooler A. Lee R. Wurtman R. Effect of a 5 HT 2C Serotonin Agonist Dexnorfenfluramine on Amyloid Precursor Protein Metabolism in Guinea Pigs 2002 951 135 sexual dysfunction Uckert S. Stief C. Jonas U. Current and Future Trends in the Oral Pharmacotherapy of Male Erectile Dysfunction 2003 12 1521 Millan M. Peglion J. Lavielle G. Perrin Monneyron S. 5 HT2C Receptors Mediate Penile Erections in Rats Actions of Novel and Selective Agonists and Antagonists 1997 325 9 and substance abuse and addiction disorders Kampman K. Pettinata H. Lynch K. Sparkman T. O Brien C A Pilot Trial of Olanzapine for Cocaine Dependence 2003 70 265 .

Compounds that are selective for the 5 HTreceptor may therefore have therapeutic potential in treating for example the above disorders. Such selectivity can also reduce possible side effects due to activity at other serotonin receptors.

Certain N unsubstituted psilocin derivatives containing fluorine substitution at the 5 6 or 7 position have been reported Blair J. Kurrasch Orbaugh D. Marona Lewicka D. Cumbay M. Watts V. Barker E. Nichols D. Effect of Fluorine Substitution on the Pharmacology of Hallucinogenic Tryptamines 2000 43 4701 and some of these compounds were shown to have reduced activity at the 5 HTreceptor as compared to psilocin itself.

The present invention relates to novel N substituted psilocin 4 hydroxyindole derivatives that are also substituted at the 5 6 and or 7 positions and possess 5 HTreceptor selectivity preferably versus both the 5HTand 5 HTreceptors. Such compounds have not previously been described or recognized to have selective functional activity at the 5 HT receptor or to have in vivo activity in an animal model of human disease.

The invention also relates to N substituted psilocybin 4 phosphoryloxyindole derivatives also substituted at the 5 6 and or 7 positions. Without wishing to be bound by theory it is believed that such compounds act as prodrugs for the corresponding 4 hydroxy compounds in vivo Jacob III P. Shulgin A. T. in 146 2000 Eds. Lin G. C. Glennon R. A. pp 74 .

Ris hydrogen C Calkyl C Calkenyl or C Calkynyl optionally substituted with 1 3 substitutents selected from the group consisting of halogen cyano hydroxy C Calkoxyl SH C Cthioalkyl amino C Calkylamino di C Calkyl amino C Calkylsulfonyl formyl and COOH or Ris selected from the group consisting of halogen C Calkylsulfonyl formyl COOH hydroxy C Calkoxyl SH C Cthioalkyl amino C Calkylamino and di C Calkyl amino 

Ris C Calkyl C Calkenyl or C Calkynyl optionally substituted with 1 3 substitutents selected from the group consisting of halogen cyano hydroxy C Calkoxyl SH C Cthioalkyl amino C Calkylamino di C Calkyl amino C Calkylsulfonyl formyl and COOH or Ris selected from the group consisting of C Calkylsulfonyl formyl hydroxy C Calkoxyl SH C Cthioalkyl amino C Calkylamino and di C Calkyl amino 

Rrepresents 1 3 substituents selected from the group consisting of C Calkyl C Calkenyl and C Calkynyl each optionally substituted with 1 3 substitutents selected from the group consisting of halogen cyano hydroxy C Calkoxyl SH C Cthioalkyl amino C Calkylamino and di C Calkyl amino or

Rrepresents 1 3 substituents selected from the group consisting of halogen C Calkylsulfonyl formyl COOH hydroxy C Calkoxyl SH C Cthioalkyl amino C Calkylamino and di C Calkyl amino 

Ris hydrogen C Calkyl C Calkenyl or C Calkynyl optionally substituted with 1 3 substitutents selected from the group consisting of halogen cyano hydroxy C Calkoxyl SH C Cthioalkyl amino C Calkylamino di C Calkyl amino C Calkylsulfonyl formyl and COOH or Ris selected from the group consisting of halogen C Calkylsulfonyl formyl COOH hydroxy C Calkoxyl SH C Cthioalkyl amino C Calkylamino and di C Calkyl amino 

Rrepresents 1 3 substituents selected from the group consisting of C Calkyl C Calkenyl and C Calkynyl each optionally substituted with 1 3 substitutents selected from the group consisting of halogen cyano hydroxy C Calkoxyl SH C Cthioalkyl amino C Calkylamino and di C Calkyl amino or

Rrepresents 1 3 substituents selected from the group consisting of halogen C Calkylsulfonyl formyl COOH hydroxy C Calkoxyl SH C Cthioalkyl amino C Calkylamino and di C Calkyl amino 

In another aspect the invention provides a method for the treatment of Obsessive Compulsive Disorder OCD in a subject. The method includes administering to the subject a compound of Formula I or Formula II such that OCD is treated.

In another aspect the invention provides a method for suppressing appetite in a subject The method includes administering to the subject a compound of Formula I or Formula II such that appetite is suppressed in the subject.

or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt solvate ester or pro drug thereof. In preferred embodiments R is CHor CHCHCH.

In still another aspect the invention provides a method for the treatment of Obsessive Compulsive Disorder OCD in a subject. The method includes administering to the subject a compound of Formula III such that OCD is treated.

In yet another aspect the invention provides a method for suppressing appetite in a subject. The method includes administering to the subject a compound of Formula III such that appetite is suppressed in the subject.

In still another aspect the invention provides a method for the treatment of Obsessive Compulsive Disorder OCD in a subject. The method includes administering to the subject a compound of Formula IV such that OCD is treated.

In yet another aspect the invention provides a method for suppressing appetite in a subject. The method includes administering to the subject a compound of Formula IV such that appetite is suppressed in the subject.

In still another aspect the invention provides a method for the treatment of a central nervous system disorder in a subject. The method includes administering to the subject a compound of any one of the formulae herein e.g. Formulae I IV such that the central nervous system disorder is treated. In preferred embodiments the central nervous system disorder is selected from the group consisting of epilepsy Alzheimer s disease sexual dysfunction addiction anorexia nervosa Tourette s syndrome and trichotillomania.

In still another aspect the invention provides a method for the treatment of a canine veterinary disease. The method includes administering to the subject a compound of any one of the formulae herein e.g. Formulae I IV such that the canine veterinary disease is treated. In preferred embodiments the canine veterinary disease is acral lick dermatitis ALD .

In another aspect the invention provides a method of increasing the activity of a serotonin receptor the method comprising contacting a serotonin receptor with a compound of any one of the formulae herein e.g. Formulae I IV .

In still further aspects the invention provides use of a compound of any of the formulae herein e.g. Formulae I IV for the treatment of Obsessive Compulsive Disorder OCD in a subject use of a compound of any of the formulae herein e.g. Formulae I IV for the treatment of obesity and or suppression of appetite in a subject use of a compound of any of the formulae herein e.g. Formulae I IV for the preparation of a medicament for treatment of Obsessive Compulsive Disorder OCD in a subject use of a compound of any of the formulae herein e.g. Formulae I IV for the preparation of a medicament for the treatment of obesity and or suppression of appetite in a subject and use of a compound for the preparation of a medicament for the treatment of a central nervous system disorder in a subject in preferred embodiments the central nervous system disorder is selected from the group consisting of epilepsy Alzheimer s disease sexual dysfunction addiction anorexia nervosa Tourette s syndrome and trichotillomania .

Other advantages aspects and embodiments of the invention will be apparent in light of the description herein.

Before further description of the present invention and in order that the invention may be more readily understood certain terms are first defined and collected here for convenience.

The term administration or administering includes routes of introducing the compound s of the invention to a subject to perform their intended function. Examples of routes of administration that may be used include injection subcutaneous intravenous parenterally intraperitoneally intrathecal oral inhalation rectal and transdermal. The pharmaceutical preparations may be given by forms suitable for each administration route. For example these preparations are administered in tablets or capsule form by injection inhalation eye lotion ointment suppository etc. administration by injection infusion or inhalation topical by lotion or ointment and rectal by suppositories. Oral administration is preferred. The injection can be bolus or can be continuous infusion. Depending on the route of administration the compound of the invention can be coated with or disposed in a selected material to protect it from natural conditions which may detrimentally effect its ability to perform its intended function. The compound of the invention can be administered alone or in conjunction with either another agent as described above or with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or both. The compound of the invention can be administered prior to the administration of the other agent simultaneously with the agent or after the administration of the agent. Furthermore the compound of the invention can also be administered in a pro drug form which is converted into its active metabolite or more active metabolite in vivo.

The term alkyl refers to the radical of saturated aliphatic groups including straight chain alkyl groups branched chain alkyl groups cycloalkyl alicyclic groups alkyl substituted cycloalkyl groups and cycloalkyl substituted alkyl groups. The term alkyl further includes alkyl groups which can further include oxygen nitrogen sulfur or phosphorous atoms replacing one or more carbons of the hydrocarbon backbone e.g. oxygen nitrogen sulfur or phosphorous atoms. In preferred embodiments a straight chain or branched chain alkyl has 30 or fewer carbon atoms in its backbone e.g. C Cfor straight chain C Cfor branched chain preferably 26 or fewer and more preferably 20 or fewer and still more preferably 4 or fewer. Likewise preferred cycloalkyls have from 3 10 carbon atoms in their ring structure and more preferably have 3 4 5 6 or 7 carbons in the ring structure.

Moreover the term alkyl as used throughout the specification and sentences is intended to include both unsubstituted alkyls and substituted alkyls the latter of which refers to alkyl moieties having substituents replacing a hydrogen on one or more carbons of the hydrocarbon backbone. Such substituents can include for example halogen hydroxyl alkylcarbonyloxy arylcarbonyloxy alkoxycarbonyloxy aryloxycarbonyloxy carboxylate alkylcarbonyl alkoxycarbonyl aminocarbonyl alkylthiocarbonyl alkoxyl phosphate phosphonato phosphinato cyano amino including alkyl amino dialkylamino arylamino diarylamino and alkylarylamino acylamino including alkylcarbonylamino arylcarbonylamino carbamoyl and ureido amidino imino sulfhydryl alkylthio arylthio thiocarboxylate sulfates sulfonato sulfamoyl sulfonamido nitro trifluoromethyl cyano azido heterocyclyl alkylaryl or an aromatic or heteroaromatic moiety. It will be understood by those skilled in the art that the moieties substituted on the hydrocarbon chain can themselves be substituted if appropriate. Cycloalkyls can be further substituted e.g. with the substituents described above. An alkylaryl moiety is an alkyl substituted with an aryl e.g. phenylmethyl benzyl . The term alkyl also includes unsaturated aliphatic groups analogous in length and possible substitution to the alkyls described above but that contain at least one double or triple bond respectively.

Unless the number of carbons is otherwise specified lower alkyl as used herein means an alkyl group as defined above but having from one to ten carbons more preferably from one to six and still more preferably from one to four carbon atoms in its backbone structure which may be straight or branched chain. Examples of lower alkyl groups include methyl ethyl n propyl i propyl tert butyl hexyl heptyl octyl and so forth. In preferred embodiment the term lower alkyl includes a straight chain alkyl having 4 or fewer carbon atoms in its backbone e.g. C Calkyl.

The terms alkoxyalkyl polyaminoalkyl and thioalkoxyalkyl refer to alkyl groups as described above which further include oxygen nitrogen or sulfur atoms replacing one or more carbons of the hydrocarbon backbone e.g. oxygen nitrogen or sulfur atoms.

The terms alkenyl and alkynyl refer to unsaturated aliphatic groups analogous in length and possible substitution to the alkyls described above but that contain at least one double or triple bond respectively. For example the invention contemplates cyano and propargyl groups.

The terms alkylene alkenylene and alkynylene refer to divalent aliphatic radicals corresponding respectively to alkyl alkenyl and alkynyl groups as defined above and which may be substituted as described above.

The term aryl as used herein refers to the radical of aryl groups including 5 and 6 membered single ring aromatic groups that may include from zero to four heteroatoms for example benzene pyrrole furan thiophene imidazole benzoxazole benzothiazole triazole tetrazole pyrazole pyridine pyrazine pyridazine and pyrimidine and the like. Aryl groups also include polycyclic fused aromatic groups such as naphthyl quinolyl indolyl and the like. Those aryl groups having heteroatoms in the ring structure may also be referred to as aryl heterocycles heteroaryls or heteroaromatics. The aromatic ring can be substituted at one or more ring positions with such substituents as described above as for example halogen hydroxyl alkoxy alkylcarbonyloxy arylcarbonyloxy alkoxycarbonyloxy aryloxycarbonyloxy carboxylate alkylcarbonyl alkoxycarbonyl aminocarbonyl alkylthiocarbonyl phosphate phosphonato phosphinato cyano amino including alkyl amino dialkylamino arylamino diarylamino and alkylarylamino acylamino including alkylcarbonylamino arylcarbonylamino carbamoyl and ureido amidino imino sulfhydryl alkylthio arylthio thiocarboxylate sulfates sulfonato sulfamoyl sulfonamido nitro trifluoromethyl cyano azido heterocyclyl alkylaryl or an aromatic or heteroaromatic moiety. Aryl groups can also be fused or bridged with alicyclic or heterocyclic rings which are not aromatic so as to form a polycycle e.g. tetralin .

The language biological activities of a compound of the invention includes all activities elicited by compound of the inventions in a responsive subject or cell. It includes genomic and non genomic activities elicited by these compounds.

The term chiral refers to molecules which have the property of non superimposability of the mirror image partner while the term achiral refers to molecules which are superimposable on their mirror image partner.

The term diastereomers refers to stereoisomers with two or more centers of dissymmetry and whose molecules are not mirror images of one another.

The term effective amount includes an amount effective at dosages and for periods of time necessary to achieve the desired result e.g. sufficient to treat a subject suffering from OCD epilepsy Alzheimer s disease sexual dysfunction addiction anorexia nervosa Tourette s syndrome trichotillomania or other central nervous system disorders or canine veterinary diseases including acral lick dermatitis ALD or an amount effective to suppress appetite in a subject in need of such treatment. An effective amount of compound of the invention may vary according to factors such as the disease state age and weight of the subject and the ability of the compound of the invention to elicit a desired response in the subject. Dosage regimens may be adjusted to provide the optimum therapeutic response. An effective amount is also one in which any toxic or detrimental effects e.g. side effects of the compound of the invention are outweighed by the therapeutically beneficial effects.

A therapeutically effective amount of compound of the invention i.e. an effective dosage may range from about 0.001 to 50 mg kg body weight preferably about 0.01 to 40 mg kg body weight more preferably about 0.1 to 35 mg kg body weight still more preferably about 1 to 30 mg kg and even more preferably about 10 to 30 mg kg. The skilled artisan will appreciate that certain factors may influence the dosage required to effectively treat a subject including but not limited to the severity of the disease or disorder previous treatments the general health and or age of the subject and other diseases present. Moreover treatment of a subject with a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of the invention can include a single treatment or preferably can include a series of treatments. In one example a subject is treated with a compound of the invention in the range of between about 0.1 to 20 mg kg body weight one time per week for between about 1 to 10 weeks preferably between 2 to 8 weeks more preferably between about 3 to 7 weeks and even more preferably for about 4 5 or 6 weeks. It will also be appreciated that the effective dosage of a compound of the invention used for treatment may increase or decrease over the course of a particular treatment.

The term enantiomers refers to two stereoisomers of a compound which are non superimposable mirror images of one another. An equimolar mixture of two enantiomers is called a racemic mixture or a racemate. 

The term haloalkyl is intended to include alkyl groups as defined above that are mono di or polysubstituted by halogen e.g. fluoromethyl and trifluoromethyl.

The term heteroatom as used herein means an atom of any element other than carbon or hydrogen. Preferred heteroatoms are nitrogen oxygen sulfur and phosphorus.

The language improved biological properties refers to any activity inherent in a compound of the invention that enhances its effectiveness in vivo. In a preferred embodiment this term refers to any qualitative or quantitative improved therapeutic property of a compound of the invention such as reduced toxicity.

The term optionally substituted is intended to encompass groups that are unsubstituted or are substituted by other than hydrogen at one or more available positions typically 1 2 3 4 or 5 positions by one or more suitable groups which may be the same or different . Such optional substituents include for example hydroxy halogen cyano nitro C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Calkoxy C Calkyl ether C Calkanone C Calkylthio amino mono or di C Calkyl amino haloC Calkyl haloC Calkoxy C Calkoxy C Calkanoyl C Calkanoyloxy C Calkoxycarbonyl COOH CONH mono or di C Calkyl aminocarbonyl SONH and or mono or di C1 C8alkyl sulfonamido as well as carbocyclic and heterocyclic groups. Optional substitution is also indicated by the phrase substituted with from 0 to X substituents where X is the maximum number of possible substituents. Certain optionally substituted groups are substituted with from 0 to 2 3 or 4 independently selected substituents i.e. are unsubstituted or substituted with up to the recited maximum number of substitutents .

The term isomers or stereoisomers refers to compounds which have identical chemical constitution but differ with regard to the arrangement of the atoms or groups in space.

The term modulate refers to an increase or decrease e.g. in the activity of a serotonin receptor in response to exposure to a compound of the invention e.g. the stimulation of serotonin receptor activity of at least a sub population of cells in an animal such that a desired end result is achieved e.g. a therapeutic result.

The phrases parenteral administration and administered parenterally as used herein means modes of administration other than enteral and topical administration usually by injection and includes without limitation intravenous intramuscular intraarterial intrathecal intracapsular intraorbital intracardiac intradermal intraperitoneal transtracheal subcutaneous subcuticular intraarticulare subcapsular subarachnoid intraspinal and intrasternal injection and infusion.

The terms polycyclyl or polycyclic radical refer to the radical of two or more cyclic rings e.g. cycloalkyls cycloalkenyls cycloalkynyls aryls and or heterocyclyls in which two or more carbons are common to two adjoining rings e.g. the rings are fused rings . Rings that are joined through non adjacent atoms are termed bridged rings. Each of the rings of the polycycle can be substituted with such substituents as described above as for example halogen hydroxyl alkylcarbonyloxy arylcarbonyloxy alkoxycarbonyloxy aryloxycarbonyloxy carboxylate alkylcarbonyl alkoxycarbonyl aminocarbonyl alkylthiocarbonyl alkoxyl phosphate phosphonato phosphinato cyano amino including alkyl amino dialkylamino arylamino diarylamino and alkylarylamino acylamino including alkylcarbonylamino arylcarbonylamino carbamoyl and ureido amidino imino sulfhydryl alkylthio arylthio thiocarboxylate sulfates sulfonato sulfamoyl sulfonamido nitro trifluoromethyl cyano azido heterocyclyl alkyl alkylaryl or an aromatic or heteroaromatic moiety.

The term prodrug or pro drug includes compounds with moieties that can be metabolized in vivo. Generally the prodrugs are metabolized in vivo by esterases or by other mechanisms to active drugs. Examples of prodrugs and their uses are well known in the art See e.g. Berge et al. 1977 Pharmaceutical Salts 66 1 19 . The prodrugs can be prepared in situ during the final isolation and purification of the compounds or by separately reacting the purified compound in its free acid form or hydroxyl with a suitable esterifying agent. Hydroxyl groups can be converted into esters via treatment with a carboxylic acid. Examples of prodrug moieties include substituted and unsubstituted branch or unbranched lower alkyl ester moieties e.g. propionoic acid esters lower alkenyl esters di lower alkyl amino lower alkyl esters e.g. dimethylaminoethyl ester acylamino lower alkyl esters e.g. acetyloxymethyl ester acyloxy lower alkyl esters e.g. pivaloyloxymethyl ester aryl esters phenyl ester aryl lower alkyl esters e.g. benzyl ester substituted e.g. with methyl halo or methoxy substituents aryl and aryl lower alkyl esters amides lower alkyl amides di lower alkyl amides and hydroxy amides. Preferred prodrug moieties are propionoic acid esters and acyl esters. Prodrugs which are converted to active forms through other mechanisms in vivo are also included.

The language a prophylactically effective amount of a compound refers to an amount of a compound of the invention any formula herein or otherwise described herein which is effective upon single or multiple dose administration to the patient in preventing or treating a disease or condition.

The language reduced toxicity is intended to include a reduction in any undesired side effect elicited by a compound of the invention when administered in vivo.

The term subject includes organisms which are capable of suffering from a serotonin receptor related disorder or who could otherwise benefit from the administration of a compound of the invention of the invention such as human and non human animals. Preferred humans include human patients suffering from or prone to suffering from a serotonin related disorder or associated state as described herein. The term non human animals of the invention includes all vertebrates e.g. mammals e.g. rodents e.g. mice and non mammals such as non human primates e.g. sheep dog cow chickens amphibians reptiles etc.

The phrases systemic administration administered systemically peripheral administration and administered peripherally as used herein mean the administration of a compound of the invention s drug or other material such that it enters the patient s system and thus is subject to metabolism and other like processes for example subcutaneous administration.

With respect to the nomenclature of a chiral center terms R and S configuration are as defined by the IUPAC Recommendations. As to the use of the terms diastereomer racemate epimer and enantiomer will be used in their normal context to describe the stereochemistry of preparations.

In one aspect the invention provides novel indole compounds. In one embodiment the invention features a compound represented by the formula Formula I 

Rrepresents 1 3 substituents selected from the group consisting of C Calkyl C Calkenyl and C Calkynyl each optionally substituted with 1 3 substitutents selected from the group consisting of halogen cyano hydroxy C Calkoxyl SH C Cthioalkyl amino C Calkylamino and di C Calkyl amino or

The compounds of the invention can be prepared by a variety of methods some of which are known in the art or will be apparent to the skilled artisan in light of the present specification. For example referring to N unsubstituted indoles such as compounds 1 and 23 can be N alkylated or N sulfonylated for example with an alkyl halide or sulfonyl chloride using a base such as sodium hydride to give N alkylated or N sulfonylated indoles. These 4 substituted indoles can be hydrogenated using for example palladium hydroxide on carbon as catalyst in the presence of hydrogen gas to give 4 hydroxyindoles. The 4 hydroxyindoles can be phosphorylated for example by use of tetrabenzylpyrophosphate and a strong base such as lithium diisopropylamide followed by hydrogenation using for example palladium hydroxide on carbon in the presence of hydrogen gas to give 4 phosphoryloxyindoles.

Naturally occurring or synthetic isomers can be separated in several ways known in the art. Methods for separating a racemic mixture of two enantiomers include chromatography using a chiral stationary phase see e.g. Chiral Liquid Chromatography W. J. Lough Ed. Chapman and Hall New York 1989 . Enantiomers can also be separated by classical resolution techniques. For example formation of diastereomeric salts and fractional crystallization can be used to separate enantiomers. For the separation of enantiomers of carboxylic acids the diastereomeric salts can be formed by addition of enantiomerically pure chiral bases such as brucine quinine ephedrine strychnine and the like. Alternatively diastereomeric esters can be formed with enantiomerically pure chiral alcohols such as menthol followed by separation of the diastereomeric esters and hydrolysis to yield the free enantiomerically enriched carboxylic acid. For separation of the optical isomers of amino compounds addition of chiral carboxylic or sulfonic acids such as camphorsulfonic acid tartaric acid mandelic acid or lactic acid can result in formation of the diastereomeric salts.

As described herein below it has now surprisingly been found that the compounds of the invention have serotonin receptor activity and can be used to treat or prevent conditions associated with serotonin receptor activity.

Thus in one embodiment the invention provides methods for treating a subject for a serotonin receptor related disorder or preventing a serotonin receptor related disorder by administering to the subject an effective amount of a compound of the invention such that the serotonin receptor related disorder is treated or prevented. Serotonin receptor related disorders include e.g. Obsessive Compulsive Disorder OCD obesity epilepsy Alzheimer s disease sexual dysfunction addiction anorexia nervosa Tourette s syndrome and trichotillomania or other central nervous system disorders or canine veterinary diseases including acral lick dermatitis ALD . In certain embodiments the subject is a mammal e.g. a primate e.g. a human.

In one embodiment a method of treating a subject suffering from or susceptible to a serotonin receptor related disorder includes administering to a subject in need thereof a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of the invention to thereby treat the subject suffering from or susceptible to a serotonin receptor related disorder.

A further aspect relates to a method of treating a subject suffering from or susceptible to Obsessive Compulsive Disorder OCD including administering to the subject an effective amount of a compound of the invention to thereby treat the subject suffering from or susceptible to OCD.

A further aspect relates to a method of treating a subject suffering from or susceptible to obesity including administering to the subject an effective amount of a compound of the invention to thereby treat the subject suffering from or susceptible to obesity. In certain embodiments the methods of the invention include administering to a subject a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of the invention in combination with another pharmaceutically active compound. Examples of pharmaceutically active compounds include compounds known to treat serotonin related diseases. Other pharmaceutically active compounds that may be used can be found in Sixteenth Edition Eds. D. L. Kasper et al. McGraw Hill Professional N.Y. N.Y. 2004 and the 2005 Physician s Desk Reference 59th Edition Thomson Healthcare 2004 the complete contents of which are expressly incorporated herein by reference. The compound of the invention and the pharmaceutically active compound may be administered to the subject in the same pharmaceutical composition or in different pharmaceutical compositions at the same time or at different times .

Determination of a therapeutically effective or a prophylactically effective amount of the compound of the invention can be readily made by the physician or veterinarian the attending clinician as one skilled in the art by the use of known techniques and by observing results obtained under analogous circumstances. The dosages may be varied depending upon the requirements of the patient in the judgment of the attending clinician the severity of the condition being treated and the particular compound being employed. In determining the therapeutically effective amount or dose and the prophylactically effective amount or dose a number of factors are considered by the attending clinician including but not limited to the specific serotonin receptor related disorder involved pharmacodynamic characteristics of the particular agent and its mode and route of administration the desired time course of treatment the species of mammal its size age and general health the specific disease involved the degree of or involvement or the severity of the disease the response of the individual patient the particular compound administered the mode of administration the bioavailability characteristics of the preparation administered the dose regimen selected the kind of concurrent treatment i.e. the interaction of the compound of the invention with other co administered therapeutics and other relevant circumstances.

Treatment can be initiated with smaller dosages which are less than the optimum dose of the compound. Thereafter the dosage may be increased by small increments until the optimum effect under the circumstances is reached. For convenience the total daily dosage may be divided and administered in portions during the day if desired. A therapeutically effective amount and a prophylactically effective amount of a compound of the invention of the invention is expected to vary from about 0.1 milligram per kilogram of body weight per day mg kg day to about 100 mg kg day.

Compounds determined to be effective for the prevention or treatment of serotonin receptor related disorders in animals e.g. dogs chickens and rodents may also be useful in treatment of serotonin receptor related disorders in humans. Those skilled in the art of treating serotonin receptor related disorders in humans will know based upon the data obtained in animal studies the dosage and route of administration of the compound to humans. In general the dosage and route of administration in humans is expected to be similar to that in animals.

The identification of those patients who are in need of prophylactic treatment for serotonin receptor related disorders is well within the ability and knowledge of one skilled in the art. Certain of the methods for identification of patients which are at risk of developing serotonin receptor related disorders which can be treated by the subject method are appreciated in the medical arts such as family history and the presence of risk factors associated with the development of that disease state in the subject patient. A clinician skilled in the art can readily identify such candidate patients by the use of for example clinical tests physical examination and medical family history.

In another aspect a compound of the invention is packaged in a therapeutically effective amount with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent. The composition may be formulated for treating a subject suffering from or susceptible to a serotonin receptor related disorder and packaged with instructions to treat a subject suffering from or susceptible to a serotonin receptor related disorder.

In another aspect the invention provides methods for stimulating or increasing serotonin receptor activity. In one embodiment a method of increasing serotonin receptor activity or a serotonin receptor related activity according to the invention includes contacting cells with a compound capable of increasing serotonin receptor activity. The contacting may be in vitro e.g. by addition of the compound to a fluid surrounding the cells for example to the growth media in which the cells are living or existing. The contacting may also be by directly contacting the compound to the cells. Alternately the contacting may be in vivo e.g. by passage of the compound through a subject for example after administration depending on the route of administration the compound may travel through the digestive tract or the blood stream or may be applied or administered directly to cells in need of treatment.

In another aspect methods of inhibiting a serotonin receptor related disorder in a subject include administering an effective amount of a compound of the invention e.g. a compound of any of the formulae herein capable of increasing serotonin receptor activity to the subject. The administration may be by any route of administering known in the pharmaceutical arts. The subject may have a serotonin receptor related disorder may be at risk of developing a serotonin receptor related disorder or may need prophylactic treatment prior to anticipated or unanticipated exposure to a conditions capable of increasing susceptibility to a serotonin receptor related disorder.

In one aspect a method of monitoring the progress of a subject being treated with a serotonin receptor active compound of the invention includes determining the pre treatment status of the serotonin receptor related disorder administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of the invention to the subject and determining the status of the serotonin receptor related disorder after an initial period of treatment wherein the modulation e.g. improvement of the status indicates efficacy of the treatment.

In one aspect methods of selecting a subject suffering from or susceptible to a serotonin receptor related disorder for treatment with a compound of the invention comprise determining the pre treatment status of the serotonin receptor related disorder administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of the invention to the subject and determining the status of the serotonin receptor related disorder after an initial period of treatment with the compound wherein the modulation e.g. improvement of the status is an indication that the serotonin receptor related disorder is likely to have a favorable clinical response to treatment with a compound of the invention.

The subject may be at risk of a serotonin receptor related disorder may be exhibiting symptoms of a serotonin receptor related disorder may be susceptible to a serotonin receptor related disorder and or may have been diagnosed with a serotonin receptor related disorder.

The initial period of treatment may be the time in which it takes to establish a stable and or therapeutically effective blood serum level of the compound or the time in which it take for the subject to clear a substantial portion of the compound or any period of time selected by the subject or healthcare professional that is relevant to the treatment.

If the modulation of the status indicates that the subject may have a favorable clinical response to the treatment the subject may be treated with the compound. For example the subject can be administered therapeutically effective dose or doses of the compound.

Kits of the invention include kits for treating a serotonin receptor related disorder in a subject. The invention also includes kits for assessing the efficacy of a treatment for a serotonin receptor related disorder in a subject monitoring the progress of a subject being treated for a serotonin receptor related disorder selecting a subject with a serotonin receptor related disorder for treatment according to the invention and or treating a subject suffering from or susceptible to a serotonin receptor related disorder. The kit may include a compound of the invention for example a compound of any of formula I IV pharmaceutically acceptable esters salts and prodrugs thereof and instructions for use. The instructions for use may include information on dosage method of delivery storage of the kit etc. The kits may also include reagents for example test compounds buffers media e.g. cell growth media cells etc. Test compounds may include known compounds or newly discovered compounds for example combinatorial libraries of compounds. One or more of the kit of the invention may be packaged together for example a kit for assessing the efficacy of an treatment for a serotonin receptor related disorder may be packaged with a kit for monitoring the progress of a subject being treated for a serotonin receptor related disorder according to the invention.

Certain of the present methods can be performed on cells in culture e.g. in vitro or ex vivo or on cells present in an animal subject e.g. in vivo. Compound of the invention can be initially tested in vitro using cells that express a serotonin receptor see e.g. the Examples infra .

Alternatively the effects of compound of the invention can be characterized in vivo using animals models.

The invention also provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising an effective amount of a compound of the invention e.g. a compound capable of treating or preventing a condition as described herein e.g. a compound of any formula herein or otherwise described herein and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

In an embodiment the compound of the invention is administered to the subject using a pharmaceutically acceptable formulation e.g. a pharmaceutically acceptable formulation that provides sustained delivery of the compound of the invention to a subject for at least 12 hours 24 hours 36 hours 48 hours one week two weeks three weeks or four weeks after the pharmaceutically acceptable formulation is administered to the subject.

In certain embodiments these pharmaceutical compositions are suitable for topical or oral administration to a subject. In other embodiments as described in detail below the pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention may be specially formulated for administration in solid or liquid form including those adapted for the following 1 oral administration for example drenches aqueous or non aqueous solutions or suspensions tablets boluses powders granules pastes 2 parenteral administration for example by subcutaneous intramuscular or intravenous injection as for example a sterile solution or suspension 3 topical application for example as a cream ointment or spray applied to the skin 4 intravaginally or intrarectally for example as a pessary cream or foam or 5 aerosol for example as an aqueous aerosol liposomal preparation or solid particles containing the compound.

The phrase pharmaceutically acceptable refers to those compound of the inventions of the present invention compositions containing such compounds and or dosage forms which are within the scope of sound medical judgment suitable for use in contact with the tissues of human beings and animals without excessive toxicity irritation allergic response or other problem or complication commensurate with a reasonable benefit risk ratio.

The phrase pharmaceutically acceptable carrier includes pharmaceutically acceptable material composition or vehicle such as a liquid or solid filler diluent excipient solvent or encapsulating material involved in carrying or transporting the subject chemical from one organ or portion of the body to another organ or portion of the body. Each carrier is acceptable in the sense of being compatible with the other ingredients of the formulation and not injurious to the patient. Some examples of materials which can serve as pharmaceutically acceptable carriers include 1 sugars such as lactose glucose and sucrose 2 starches such as corn starch and potato starch cellulose and its derivatives such as sodium carboxymethyl cellulose ethyl cellulose and cellulose acetate 4 powdered tragacanth 5 malt 6 gelatin 7 talc 8 excipients such as cocoa butter and suppository waxes 9 oils such as peanut oil cottonseed oil safflower oil sesame oil olive oil corn oil and soybean oil 10 glycols such as propylene glycol 11 polyols such as glycerin sorbitol mannitol and polyethylene glycol 12 esters such as ethyl oleate and ethyl laurate 1 agar 14 buffering agents such as magnesium hydroxide and aluminum hydroxide 15 alginic acid 16 pyrogen free water 17 isotonic saline 18 Ringer s solution 19 ethyl alcohol 20 phosphate buffer solutions and 21 other non toxic compatible substances employed in pharmaceutical formulations.

Wetting agents emulsifiers and lubricants such as sodium lauryl sulfate and magnesium stearate as well as coloring agents release agents coating agents sweetening flavoring and perfuming agents preservatives and antioxidants can also be present in the compositions.

Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable antioxidants include 1 water soluble antioxidants such as ascorbic acid cysteine hydrochloride sodium bisulfate sodium metabisulfite sodium sulfite and the like 2 oil soluble antioxidants such as ascorbyl palmitate butylated hydroxyanisole BHA butylated hydroxytoluene BHT lecithin propyl gallate alpha tocopherol and the like and 3 metal chelating agents such as citric acid ethylenediamine tetraacetic acid EDTA sorbitol tartaric acid phosphoric acid and the like.

Compositions containing a compound of the invention s include those suitable for oral nasal topical including buccal and sublingual rectal vaginal aerosol and or parenteral administration. The compositions may conveniently be presented in unit dosage form and may be prepared by any methods well known in the art of pharmacy. The amount of active ingredient which can be combined with a carrier material to produce a single dosage form will vary depending upon the host being treated the particular mode of administration. The amount of active ingredient which can be combined with a carrier material to produce a single dosage form will generally be that amount of the compound which produces a therapeutic effect. Generally out of one hundred per cent this amount will range from about 1 per cent to about ninety nine percent of active ingredient preferably from about 5 per cent to about 70 per cent more preferably from about 10 per cent to about 30 per cent.

Methods of preparing these compositions include the step of bringing into association a compound of the invention s with the carrier and optionally one or more accessory ingredients. In general the formulations are prepared by uniformly and intimately bringing into association a compound of the invention with liquid carriers or finely divided solid carriers or both and then if necessary shaping the product.

Compositions of the invention suitable for oral administration may be in the form of capsules cachets pills tablets lozenges using a flavored basis usually sucrose and acacia or tragacanth powders granules or as a solution or a suspension in an aqueous or non aqueous liquid or as an oil in water or water in oil liquid emulsion or as an elixir or syrup or as pastilles using an inert base such as gelatin and glycerin or sucrose and acacia and or as mouth washes and the like each containing a predetermined amount of a compound of the invention s as an active ingredient. A compound may also be administered as a bolus electuary or paste.

In solid dosage forms of the invention for oral administration capsules tablets pills dragees powders granules and the like the active ingredient is mixed with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers such as sodium citrate or dicalcium phosphate and or any of the following 1 fillers or extenders such as starches lactose sucrose glucose mannitol and or silicic acid 2 binders such as for example carboxymethylcellulose alginates gelatin polyvinyl pyrrolidone sucrose and or acacia humectants such as glycerol 4 disintegrating agents such as agar agar calcium carbonate potato or tapioca starch alginic acid certain silicates and sodium carbonate 5 solution retarding agents such as paraffin 6 absorption accelerators such as quaternary ammonium compounds 7 wetting agents such as for example acetyl alcohol and glycerol monostearate 8 absorbents such as kaolin and bentonite clay 9 lubricants such a talc calcium stearate magnesium stearate solid polyethylene glycols sodium lauryl sulfate and mixtures thereof and 10 coloring agents. In the case of capsules tablets and pills the pharmaceutical compositions may also comprise buffering agents. Solid compositions of a similar type may also be employed as fillers in soft and hard filled gelatin capsules using such excipients as lactose or milk sugars as well as high molecular weight polyethylene glycols and the like.

A tablet may be made by compression or molding optionally with one or more accessory ingredients. Compressed tablets may be prepared using binder for example gelatin or hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose lubricant inert diluent preservative disintegrant for example sodium starch glycolate or cross linked sodium carboxymethyl cellulose surface active or dispersing agent. Molded tablets may be made by molding in a suitable machine a mixture of the powdered active ingredient moistened with an inert liquid diluent.

The tablets and other solid dosage forms of the pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention such as dragees capsules pills and granules may optionally be scored or prepared with coatings and shells such as enteric coatings and other coatings well known in the pharmaceutical formulating art. They may also be formulated so as to provide slow or controlled release of the active ingredient therein using for example hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose in varying proportions to provide the desired release profile other polymer matrices liposomes and or microspheres. They may be sterilized by for example filtration through a bacteria retaining filter or by incorporating sterilizing agents in the form of sterile solid compositions which can be dissolved in sterile water or some other sterile injectable medium immediately before use. These compositions may also optionally contain opacifying agents and may be of a composition that they release the active ingredient s only or preferentially in a certain portion of the gastrointestinal tract optionally in a delayed manner. Examples of embedding compositions which can be used include polymeric substances and waxes. The active ingredient can also be in micro encapsulated form if appropriate with one or more of the above described excipients.

Liquid dosage forms for oral administration of the compound of the invention s include pharmaceutically acceptable emulsions microemulsions solutions suspensions syrups and elixirs. In addition to the active ingredient the liquid dosage forms may contain inert diluents commonly used in the art such as for example water or other solvents solubilizing agents and emulsifiers such as ethyl alcohol isopropyl alcohol ethyl carbonate ethyl acetate benzyl alcohol benzyl benzoate propylene glycol 1 3 butylene glycol oils in particular cottonseed groundnut corn germ olive castor and sesame oils glycerol tetrahydrofuryl alcohol polyethylene glycols and fatty acid esters of sorbitan and mixtures thereof.

In addition to inert diluents the oral compositions can include adjuvants such as wetting agents emulsifying and suspending agents sweetening flavoring coloring perfuming and preservative agents.

Suspensions in addition to the active compound of the invention s may contain suspending agents as for example ethoxylated isostearyl alcohols polyoxyethylene sorbitol and sorbitan esters microcrystalline cellulose aluminum metahydroxide bentonite agar agar and tragacanth and mixtures thereof.

Pharmaceutical compositions of the invention for rectal or vaginal administration may be presented as a suppository which may be prepared by mixing one or more compound of the invention s with one or more suitable nonirritating excipients or carriers comprising for example cocoa butter polyethylene glycol a suppository wax or a salicylate and which is solid at room temperature but liquid at body temperature and therefore will melt in the rectum or vaginal cavity and release the active agent.

Compositions of the present invention which are suitable for vaginal administration also include pessaries tampons creams gels pastes foams or spray formulations containing such carriers as are known in the art to be appropriate.

Dosage forms for the topical or transdermal administration of a compound of the invention s include powders sprays ointments pastes creams lotions gels solutions patches and inhalants. The active compound of the invention s may be mixed under sterile conditions with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and with any preservatives buffers or propellants which may be required.

The ointments pastes creams and gels may contain in addition to compound of the invention s of the present invention excipients such as animal and vegetable fats oils waxes paraffins starch tragacanth cellulose derivatives polyethylene glycols silicones bentonites silicic acid talc and zinc oxide or mixtures thereof.

Powders and sprays can contain in addition to a compound of the invention s excipients such as lactose talc silicic acid aluminum hydroxide calcium silicates and polyamide powder or mixtures of these substances. Sprays can additionally contain customary propellants such as chlorofluorohydrocarbons and volatile unsubstituted hydrocarbons such as butane and propane.

The compound of the invention s can be alternatively administered by aerosol. This is accomplished by preparing an aqueous aerosol liposomal preparation or solid particles containing the compound. A nonaqueous e.g. fluorocarbon propellant suspension could be used. Sonic nebulizers are preferred because they minimize exposing the agent to shear which can result in degradation of the compound.

Ordinarily an aqueous aerosol is made by formulating an aqueous solution or suspension of the agent together with conventional pharmaceutically acceptable carriers and stabilizers. The carriers and stabilizers vary with the requirements of the particular compound but typically include nonionic surfactants Tweens Pluronics or polyethylene glycol innocuous proteins like serum albumin sorbitan esters oleic acid lecithin amino acids such as glycine buffers salts sugars or sugar alcohols. Aerosols generally are prepared from isotonic solutions.

Transdermal patches have the added advantage of providing controlled delivery of a compound of the invention s to the body. Such dosage forms can be made by dissolving or dispersing the agent in the proper medium. Absorption enhancers can also be used to increase the flux of the active ingredient across the skin The rate of such flux can be controlled by either providing a rate controlling membrane or dispersing the active ingredient in a polymer matrix or gel.

Ophthalmic formulations eye ointments powders solutions and the like are also contemplated as being within the scope of the invention.

Pharmaceutical compositions of the invention suitable for parenteral administration comprise one or more compound of the invention s in combination with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable sterile isotonic aqueous or nonaqueous solutions dispersions suspensions or emulsions or sterile powders which may be reconstituted into sterile injectable solutions or dispersions just prior to use which may contain antioxidants buffers bacteriostats solutes which render the formulation isotonic with the blood of the intended recipient or suspending or thickening agents.

Examples of suitable aqueous and nonaqueous carriers which may be employed in the pharmaceutical compositions of the invention include water ethanol polyols such as glycerol propylene glycol polyethylene glycol and the like and suitable mixtures thereof vegetable oils such as olive oil and injectable organic esters such as ethyl oleate. Proper fluidity can be maintained for example by the use of coating materials such as lecithin by the maintenance of the required particle size in the case of dispersions and by the use of surfactants.

These compositions may also contain adjuvants such as preservatives wetting agents emulsifying agents and dispersing agents. Prevention of the action of microorganisms may be ensured by the inclusion of various antibacterial and antifungal agents for example paraben chlorobutanol phenol sorbic acid and the like. It may also be desirable to include isotonic agents such as sugars sodium chloride and the like into the compositions. In addition prolonged absorption of the injectable pharmaceutical form may be brought about by the inclusion of agents which delay absorption such as aluminum monostearate and gelatin.

In some cases in order to prolong the effect of a drug it is desirable to slow the absorption of the drug from subcutaneous or intramuscular injection. This may be accomplished by the use of a liquid suspension of crystalline or amorphous material having poor water solubility. The rate of absorption of the drug then depends upon its rate of dissolution which in turn may depend upon crystal size and crystalline form. Alternatively delayed absorption of a parenterally administered drug form is accomplished by dissolving or suspending the drug in an oil vehicle.

Injectable depot forms are made by forming microencapsule matrices of compound of the invention s in biodegradable polymers such as polylactide polyglycolide. Depending on the ratio of drug to polymer and the nature of the particular polymer employed the rate of drug release can be controlled. Examples of other biodegradable polymers include poly orthoesters and poly anhydrides . Depot injectable formulations are also prepared by entrapping the drug in liposomes or microemulsions which are compatible with body tissue.

When the compound of the invention s are administered as pharmaceuticals to humans and animals they can be given per se or as a pharmaceutical composition containing for example 0.1 to 99.5 more preferably 0.5 to 90 of active ingredient in combination with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

Regardless of the route of administration selected the compound of the invention s which may be used in a suitable hydrated form and or the pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention are formulated into pharmaceutically acceptable dosage forms by conventional methods known to those of skill in the art.

Actual dosage levels and time course of administration of the active ingredients in the pharmaceutical compositions of the invention may be varied so as to obtain an amount of the active ingredient which is effective to achieve the desired therapeutic response for a particular patient composition and mode of administration without being toxic to the patient. An exemplary dose range is from 0.1 to 10 mg per day.

A preferred dose of the compound of the invention for the present invention is the maximum that a patient can tolerate and not develop serious side effects. Preferably the compound of the present invention is administered at a concentration or amount of about 0.001 mg to about 100 mg per kilogram of body weight about 0.01 about 50 mg kg or about 10 mg about 30 mg kg of body weight. Ranges intermediate to the above recited values are also intended to be part of the invention.

The invention is further illustrated by the following examples which are intended to illustrate but not limit the scope of the invention.

General. All exemplified target compounds are fully analyzed and characterized mp TLC CHN HPLC MS NMR C NMR prior to submission for biological evaluation. Melting points are uncorrected. Thin layer chromatography was carried out on Baker Si 250F plates. Visualization was accomplished with ultraviolet exposure or with phosphomolybdic acid. Flash chromatography was carried out on silica gel 60 mM . Elemental analyses were performed at Atlantic Microlab. HPLC MS were carried out on a Agilent 1100 series HPLC Mass Spectrometer. H and C NMR spectra were recorded at 300 and 75 MHz respectively on a Jeol Eclipse 300 Spectrometer. NMR assignments are based on a combination of the H C H COSY HMBC and HMQC spectra. Anhydrous methylene chloride tetrahydrofuran and dimethylformamide are Aldrich Sure Seal and other materials are reagent grade.

A solution of compound 1 prepared according to the procedure of Blair J. Kurrasch Orbaugh D. Marona Lewicka D. Cumbay M. Watts V. Barker E. Nichols D. Effect of Ring Fluorination of Hallucinogenic Tryptamines 2000 43 4701 2.77 g 8.9 mmol 1 eq in 70 mL of anhydrous DMF was cooled in a wet ice bath. Sodium hydride 60 wt dispersion in oil 534 mg 13.3 mmol 1.5 eq was added. After stirring at 0 C. for 45 minutes methyl iodide 9.36 mmol 1.05 eq as a 0.3 M solution in anhydrous DMF was added dropwise. After stirring for 1 hour at room temperature saturated aqueous NaHCOwas added and the product was extracted into ethyl acetate. Purification by flash chromatography provided 2.78 g of 2 as a gold oil. Yield 95 . H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 2.13 s 6H 2.54 m 2H 2.96 m 2H 3.89 s 3H 5.12 s 2H 6.31 dd 1H 6.69 m 2H 7.30 7.65 m 5H . MS m z 327 M 1 .

A solution of 2 2.78 g 8.5 mmol in 40 mL of MeOH was charged with Pd OH 500 mg and stirred under 1 atm of Hfor 4 hours. Following removal of the catalyst crystallization from MeOH provided 1.42 g of 11 O 3804 as a beige powder. Yield 69 . Melting point 134 138 C. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 2.36 s 6H 2.66 m 2H 2.89 m 2H 3.88 s 3H 6.35 dd 1H 6.62 s 1H 6.69 dd 1H . MS m z 237 M 1 . Analysis calculated for CHFNO C 66.08 H 7.25 N 11.86. found C 66.04 H 7.26 N 11.75.

A solution of compound 1 115 mg 0.37 mmol 1 eq in 3 mL of anhydrous DMF was cooled in a wet ice bath. Sodium hydride 60 wt dispersion in oil 23 mg 0.57 mmol 1.5 eq was added. After stirring at 0 C. for 45 minutes ethyl iodide 0.42 mmol 1.1 eq as a 0.3 M solution in anhydrous DMF was added dropwise. After stirring for 2 3 hours at room temperature saturated aqueous NaHCOwas added and the product was extracted into ethyl acetate. Removal of the solvent provided 3 in quantitative yield used in the next step without further purification.

Compound 3 was dissolved in 4 mL of MeOH Pd OH 25 mg was added and the mixture was stirred under 1 atm of Hfor 4 hours. Following removal of the catalyst purification by flash column chromatography provided 52 mg of 12 O 3943 as a tan solid. Yield 56 . Melting point 114 120 C. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 1.42 t 3H 2.36 s 6H 2.68 m 2H 2.90 m 2H 4.21 q 2H 6.36 dd 1H 6.68 6.74 m 2H . MS m z 251 M 1 . Analysis calculated for CHFNO C 67.18 H 7.65 N 11.19. found C 67.29 H 7.66 N 11.04.

Following the procedure used to prepare compound 12 compound 1 124 mg 0.40 mmol was treated with n propyl iodide followed by debenzylation and purification by flash chromatography to give 66 mg of 13 O 3952 as a tan solid. Yield 62 . Melting point 75 79 C. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl3 0.90 t 3H 1.81 m 2H 2.36 s 6 H 2.68 m 2H 2.90 m 2H 4.12 t 2H 6.36 dd 1H 6.67 6.74 m 2H . MS m z 265 M 1 . Analysis calculated for CHFNO C 68.16 H 8.01 N 10.60. found C 67.93 H 7.91 N 10.35.

Following the procedure used to prepare compound 11 compound 1 127 mg 0.41 mmol was treated with 2 fluoroethyl bromide followed by debenzylation and purification by flash chromatography to give 75 mg of 14 O 3975 as a tan solid. Yield 68 . Melting point 97 101 C. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 2.36 s 6H 2.68 m 2H 2.90 m 2H 4.42 t 1H 4.50 t 1H 4.64 t 1H 4.79 t 1H 6.38 dd 1H 6.70 6.79 m 2H . MS m z 269 M 1 . Analysis calculated for CHFNO C 62.25 H 6.79 N 10.37. found C 62.11 H 6.63 N 10.34.

Following the procedure used for the preparation of compound 2 compound 1 108 mg 0.35 mmol was treated with n butyl iodide to provide 90 mg of 6 as a yellow oil. Yield 71 . H NMR 300 MHz CDCl3 0.92 t 3H 1.31 m 2H 1.77 m 2H 2.15 s 6H 2.53 m 2H 2.99 m 2H 4.17 t 2H 5.13 s 2H 6.32 dd 1H 6.65 6.74 m 2H 7.29 7.49 m 5H . MS m z 369 M 1 .

A solution of 6 90 mg 0.24 mmol in 5 mL of MeOH was charged with Pd OH 30 mg and stirred under 1 atm of Hfor 4 hours. Following removal of the catalyst purification by flash column chromatography provided 52 mg of 15 O 4205 as a white solid. Yield 78 . Melting point 87 90 C. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 0.93 t 3H 1.30 m 2H 1.77 m 2H 2.37 s 6H 2.68 m 2H 2.90 m 2H 4.15 t 2H 6.35 dd 1H 6.65 6.75 m 2H . MS m z 279 M 1 . Analysis calculated for CHFNO C 69.04 H 8.33 N 10.06. found C 69.03 H 8.46 N 9.97.

Following the procedure used to prepare compound 2 compound 1 148 mg 0.48 mmol and cyclopropylmethyl bromide 1.0 mmol gave compound 7 112 mg as a yellow oil. Yield 64 . H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.46 7.50 m 2H 7.32 7.40 m 3H 6.83 s 1H 6.68 dd J 12.4 8.7 1H 6.32 dd J 8.4 2.7 1H 5.13 s 2H 4.06 d J 6.9 2H 2.92 2.98 m 2H 2.54 2.60 m 2H 2.12 s 6H 1.23 1.26 m 1 H 0.52 0.58 m 2H 0.33 0.36 m 2H . Mass spectrum m z 367 M 1 .

Following the procedure used to prepare compound 15 compound 7 101 mg 0.28 mmol gave 66 mg of compound 16 as a beige foam. Yield 86 . H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 6.80 s 1H 6.71 dd J 12.6 8.4 1H 6.35 dd J 8.4 3.3 1H 4.04 d J 6.6 2H 2.89 2.93 m 2H 2.66 2.70 m 2H 2.35 s 6H 1.22 1.24 m 1 H 0.54 0.58 m 2H 0.31 0.34 m 2H . Mass spectrum m z 277 M 1 . Analysis calculated for CHFNO 0.1 HO C 69.09 H 7.68 N 10.07. found C 68.98 H 7.67 N 9.85.

Following the procedure used to prepare compound 2 compound 1 148 mg 0.47 mmol sodium hydride 1.50 mmol and isopropyl iodide 1.5 mmol gave compound 8 130 mg as a yellow oil. Yield 78 . H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.37 7.44 m 2H 7.30 7.36 m 3H 6.91 s 1H 6.68 dd J 12.4 8.4 1H 6.32 dd J 8.4 2.7 1H 5.13 s 2H . 4.90 5.13 m 1H 2.92 2.98 m 2H 2.54 2.60 m 2H 2.12 s 6H 1.48 d J 6.9 6H . Mass spectrum m z 355 M 1 .

Following the procedure used to prepare compound 15 compound 8 110 mg 0.31 mmol gave compound 17 66 mg as a beige solid. Yield 80 . Melting point 108 110 C. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 6.86 s 1H 6.71 dd J 12.9 8.4 1H 6.36 dd J 8.1 3.0 1H 4.92 5.01 m 1H 2.88 2.94 m 2H 2.65 2.70 m 2H 2.36 s 6H 1.46 d J 6.6 6H . Mass spectrum m z 265 M 1 . Analysis calculated for CHFNO C 68.16 H 8.01 N 10.60. found C 67.98 H 8.02 N 10.45.

To a solution of compound 1 160 mg 0.51 mmol in DMF 5 ml was added sodium hydride 1.5 mmol at 0 C. After stirring for 5 minutes methanesulfonyl chloride 2.0 mmol was added dropwise over 5 minutes. The reaction mixture was stirred at 0 5 C. for 15 minutes then gradually heated to 110 C. and stirred at 110 C. for 12 hours cooled to 25 C. quenched by addition of water 20 ml and extracted with EtOAc 45 2 ml . The extracts were collected washed with brine and dried over MgSO. Removal of the solvent followed by column chromatography provided compound 9 72 mg as an oil. Yield 36 . H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.32 7.48 m 5H 6.99 dd J 11.7 8.4 1H 6.62 dd J 12 3.6 1H 5.15 s 2H 3.43 s 3H 2.92 2.98 m 2H 2.54 2.60 m 2H 2.14 s 6H . Mass spectrum m z 391 M 1 .

Following the procedure used to prepare compound 15 compound 9 70 mg 0.18 mmol gave compound 18 24 mg as a beige solid. Yield 45 . Melting point 181 183 C. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.22 s 1H 6.90 dd J 11.4 8.4 1H 6.62 dd J 8.4 3.3 1H 3.44 s 2H 2.86 2.91 m 2H 2.70 2.76 m 2H 2.38 s 6H . Mass spectrum m z 301 M 1 . Analysis calculated for CHFNOS 0.1 CHCl C 50.95 H 5.61 N 9.07. found C 51.07 H 5.59 N 8.98.

Following the procedure used to prepare compound 9 compound 1 150 mg 0.48 mmol sodium hydride 1.5 mmol and ethanesulfonyl chloride 1.92 mmol gave compound 10 98 mg as an oil. Yield 50 . H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.32 7.48 m 5H 6.92 dd J 11.7 8.7 1H 6.62 dd J 9.3 3.0 1H 5.14 s 2H 3.58 q J 7.5 2H 2.94 3.04 m 2H 2.54 2.60 m 2H 2.14 s 6H 1.34 t J 7.5 3H . Mass spectrum m z 405 M 1 .

Following the procedure used to prepare compound 15 compound 10 95 mg 0.23 mmol gave compound 19 41 mg as a beige foam. Yield 57 . H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.21 s 1H 6.92 dd J 11.7 8.4 1H 6.62 dd J 9.0 3.6 1H 3.62 q J 7.5 2H 2.88 2.93 m 2H 2.72 2.76 m 2H 2.38 s 6H 1.32 t J 7.5 3 H . Mass spectrum m z 315 M 1 . Analysis calculated for CHFNOS 0.1 HO C 53.18 H 6.12 N 8.86. found C 52.98 H 6.31 N 8.63.

A solution of compound 1 497 mg 1.59 mmol in 40 mL of MeOH was charged with Pd OH 110 mg and stirred under 1 atm of Hfor 4 hours. Following removal of the catalyst and evaporation of the solvent the crude product was dissolved in 15 mL of anhydrous THF. After cooling to 78 C. n butyllithium 3.30 mmol 2.1 eq was added dropwise. After stirring at 78 C. for 20 minutes allyl bromide 0.3 mmol 1 eq as a 0.3 M solution in THF was added dropwise. After warming to room temperature the reaction was stirred for 2 hours and then quenched by addition of HO. Extraction into diethyl ether followed by multiple chromatographies provided 6 mg of 20 as a white solid. Yield 1.5 . H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 2.36 s 6H 2.67 m 2H 2.90 m 2H 4.79 m 2H 5.03 d 1H 5.14 m 1H 6.02 m 1H 6.36 dd 1H 6.70 m 2H . MS m z 263 M 1 .

Compound 11 750 mg 3.18 mmol 1 eq was dissolved in 70 mL anhydrous THF. Anhydrous diisopropylamine 107 mg 1.6 mmol 0.33 eq was added and the mixture cooled to 78 C. N Butyllithium 4 mmol 1.25 eq was added rapidly and the mixture stirred at 78 C. for 5 7 minutes. Tetrabenzyl pyrophosphate prepared according to the procedure of Khorana H. and Todd A. J. Chem. Soc. 2257 2260 1953 2.15 g 4 mmol 1.25 eq was added rapidly and the reaction mixture then transferred to a 20 C. ice salt bath. After stirring for 2 hours saturated aqueous ammonium chloride was added. The crude intermediate was isolated by extraction followed by standard workup then dissolved in 70 mL of MeOH charged with Pd OH 420 mg and stirred under 1 atm of H. Following removal of the catalyst the pH was adjusted to approximately 5 using ion exchange resin. Removal of the solvent followed by crystallization from HO provided 530 mg of 21 as a white solid. Yield 52 . Melting point 184 186 C. H NMR 300 MHz DO 2.72 s 6H 3.09 m 2H 3.27 m 2H 3.72 d 3H 6.70 m 2H 6.88 s 1H . MS m z 237 M 1 H2PO3 . Analysis calculated for CHFNOP 0.25 HO C 48.68 H 5.81 N 8.73 F 5.92. found C 48.65 H 5.70 N 8.68 F 5.80.

Following the procedure used to prepare compound 21 compound 13 579 mg 2.19 mmol provided 418 mg of 22 as a white solid. Yield 55 . Melting point 209 211 C. H NMR 300 MHz DO 0.70 t 3H 1.68 m 2H 2.80 s 6H 3.17 m 2H 3.33 m 2H 4.09 t 2H 6.75 6.78 m 2H 7.05 s 1H . MS m z 345 M 1 . Analysis calculated for CHFNOP 0.6 HO C 50.73 H 6.58 N 7.89. found C 50.69 H 6.62 N 7.90.

Following the procedure used to prepare compound 2 compound 23 prepared according to the procedure of Blair J. Kurrasch Orbaugh D. Marona Lewicka D. Cumbay M. Watts V. Barker E. Nichols D. Effect of Ring Fluorination of Hallucinogenic Tryptamines 2000 43 4701 624 mg 2 mmol sodium hydride 6 mmol and methyl iodide 2.4 mmol gave compound 24 520 mg as a white solid. Yield 80 . Melting point 156 158 C. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.47 7.50 m 2H 7.32 7.40 m 3H 6.71 s 1H 6.56 dd J 9.3 1.9 1H 6.34 dd J 11.7 1.9 1H 5.18 s 2H 3.69 s 3H 2.92 2.98 m 2H 2.54 2.60 m 2H 2.13 s 6H . Mass spectrum m z 327 M 1 .

Following the procedure used to prepare compound 15 compound 24 500 mg 1.53 mmol gave compound 32 298 mg as a beige solid. Yield 83 . Melting point 132 134 C. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 6.60 s 1H 6.44 dd J 9.6 2.1 1H 6.31 dd J 11.4 2.1 1H 3.66 s 3H 2.82 2.90 m 2H 2.64 2.70 m 2H 2.38 s 6H . Mass spectrum m z 237 M 1 192 M 1 HNMe . Analysis calculated for CHFNO C 66.08 H 7.25 N 11.86. found C 66.03 H 7.35 N 11.75.

Following the procedure used to prepare compound 2 compound 23 156 mg 0.5 mmol sodium hydride 1.50 mmol and ethyl iodide 0.75 mmol gave compound 25 130 mg as a white solid. Yield 76 . Melting point 172 174 C. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.46 7.50 m 2H 7.32 7.40 m 3H 6.70 s 1H 6.56 dd J 9.3 1.9 1H 6.32 dd J 11.7 1.9 1H 5.18 s 2H 3.98 q J 7.2 2H 2.92 2.98 m 2H 2.54 2.60 m 2H 2.13 s 6H . Mass spectrum m z 341 M 1 .

Following the procedure used to prepare compound 15 compound 25 98 mg 0.29 mmol gave compound 33 60 mg as a beige foam. Yield 82 . H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 6.70 s 1H 6.45 dd J 9.6 2.1 1H 6.32 dd J 11.4 2.1 1H 3.98 q J 7.2 2H 2.82 2.90 m 2H 2.64 2.70 m 2H 2.40 s 6H 1.40 t J 7.2 3H . Mass spectrum m z 251 M 1 . Analysis calculated for CHFNO C 67.18 H 7.65 N 11.20. found C 67.09 H 7.79 N 10.94.

Following the procedure used to prepare compound 2 compound 23 156 mg 0.5 mmol sodium hydride 1.50 mmol and n propyl iodide 0.75 mmol gave compound 26 106 mg as a white solid. Yield 60 . Melting point 144 146 C. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.46 7.49 m 5H 6.95 s 1H 6.64 dd J 9.3 1.9 1H 6.46 dd J 11.7 1.9 1H 5.08 s 2H 3.92 t J 7.2 2H 3.52 3.57 m 2H 3.12 3.20 m 2H 3.0 s 6H 1.79 m 2H 0.92 t J 7.2 3H . Mass spectrum m z 355 M 1 .

Following the procedure used for the preparation of compound 15 compound 26 106 mg 0.30 mmol gave compound 34 62 mg as a beige solid. Yield 78 . Melting point 104 106 C. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 6.68 s 1H 6.46 dd J 9.6 2.1 1H 6.30 dd J 11.4 2.1 1H 3.87 t J 7.2 2H 2.82 2.90 m 2H 2.64 2.70 m 2H 2.38 s 6H 1.78 m 2H 0.92 t J 7.5 3H . Mass spectrum m z 265 M 1 . Analysis calculated for CHFNO C 68.16 H 8.01 N 10.60. found C 67.99 H 8.02 N 10.43.

Following the procedure used to prepare compound 2 compound 23 0.5 mmol sodium hydride 1.50 mmol and butyl iodide 0.75 mmol gave compound 27 112 mg . Yield 61 . Melting point 86 89 C. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.46 7.50 m 2H 7.34 7.41 m 3H 6.73 s 1H 6.56 dd J 9.3 1.9 1H 6.33 dd J 11.7 1.9 1H 5.17 s 2H 3.92 q J 7.2 2H 2.92 2.98 m 2H 2.54 2.60 m 2H 2.14 s 6 H 1.72 1.78 m 2H 0.93 t J 7.2 3H . Mass spectrum m z 369 M 1 .

Following the same procedure used for the preparation of compound 15 compound 27 100 mg 0.27 mmol gave compound 35 60 mg as a beige solid. Yield 80 . Melting point 92 95 C. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 6.68 s 1H 6.46 dd J 9.3 2.1 1 H 6.30 dd J 11.7 2.1 1H 3.89 t J 7.2 2H 2.82 2.90 m 2H 2.64 2.68 m 2H 2.38 s 6H 1.70 1.78 m 2H 1.28 1.34 m 2H 0.92 t J 7.2 3H . Mass spectrum m z 279 M 1 . Analysis calculated for CHFNO C 69.04 H 8.33 N 10.06. found C 68.81 H 8.44 N 9.89.

Following the procedure used to prepare compound 2 compound 23 0.5 mmol sodium hydride 1.50 mmol and cyclopropylmethyl bromide 0.75 mmol gave compound 28 129 mg . Yield 70 . Melting point 121 123 C. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.46 7.50 m 2H 7.32 7.40 m 3H 6.85 s 1H 6.62 dd J 9.6 1.9 1H 6.34 dd J 11.7 1.9 1H 5.18 s 2H 3.80 d J 6.9 2H 2.92 2.98 m 2H 2.54 2.60 m 2H 2.12 s 6H 2.17 2.20 m 2H 0.56 0.61 m 2H 0.30 0.34 m 2H . Mass spectrum m z 367 M 1 .

Following the procedure used for the preparation of compound 15 compound 28 105 mg 0.28 mmol gave compound 36 60 mg as a beige solid. Yield 76 . Melting point 110 112 C. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 6.80 s 1H 6.48 dd J 9.6 2.1 1H 6.31 dd J 11.7 2.1 1H 3.77 d J 6.9 2H 2.82 2.90 m 2H 2.64 2.70 m 2H 2.36 s 6H 1.22 1.24 m 1H 0.58 0.62 m 2H 0.31 0.34 m 2H . Mass spectrum m z 277 M 1 . Analysis calculated for CHFNO C 69.54 H 7.66 N 10.14. found C 69.48 H 7.78 N 9.93.

Following the procedure used to prepare compound 2 compound 23 0.5 mmol sodium hydride 1.50 mmol and isopropyl iodide 0.75 mmol gave compound 29 128 mg as a yellow oil. Yield 72 . H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.46 7.50 m 2H 7.32 7.40 m 3H 6.85 s 1H 6.62 dd J 9.9 1.9 1H 6.34 dd J 11.7 1.9 1H 5.14 s 2H 4.40 4.47 m 1H 2.92 2.98 m 2H 2.54 2.60 m 2H 2.12 s 6H 1.46 d J 6.6 6H . Mass spectrum m z 355 M 1 .

Following the procedure used to prepare compound 15 compound 29 120 mg 0.33 mmol gave compound 37 78 mg as a beige foam. Yield 86 . H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 6.79 s 1H 6.52 dd J 9.3 2.1 1H 6.30 dd J 11.7 2.1 1H 4.38 4.44 m 1H 2.88 2.94 m 2H 2.67 2.71 m 2H 2.38 s 6H 1.43 d J 6.6 6 H . Mass spectrum m z 265 M 1 . Analysis calculated for CHFNO C 68.16 H 8.01 N 10.60. found C 68.10 H 8.11 N 10.40.

Following the procedure used to prepare compound 9 compound 23 120 mg 0.38 mmol sodium hydride 0.8 mmol and methanesulfonyl chloride 1.52 mmol gave compound 30 91 mg as a foam. Yield 61 . H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.34 7.48 m 5H 7.23 dd J 11.4 2.1 1H 6.56 dd J 11.4 2.1 1H 5.15 s 2H 3.11 s 2H 3.11 s 3H 2.92 2.98 m 2H 2.54 2.60 m 2H 2.14 s 6H . Mass spectrum m z 391 M 1 .

Following the procedure used to prepare compound 15 compound 30 70 mg 0.18 mmol gave compound 38 24 mg as a beige solid. Yield 45 . Melting point 184 186 C. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.12 dd J 9.3 2.1 1H 7.05 s 1H 6.50 dd J 11.4 2.1 1H 3.06 s 3H 2.88 2.93 m 2H 2.72 2.78 m 2H 2.38 s 6H . Mass spectrum m z 301 M 1 . Analysis calculated for CHFNOS 0.05 CHCl C 51.47 H 5.62 N 9.20. found C 51.66 H 5.79 N 8.84.

Following the procedure used to prepare compound 9 compound 23 130 mg 0.42 mmol sodium hydride 1.26 mmol and ethanesulfonyl chloride 1.68 mmol gave compound 31 128 mg as an oil. Yield 77 . H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.32 7.48 m 5H 7.22 dd J 9.3 2.1 1H 6.54 dd J 11.4 2.1 1H 5.14 s 2H 3.24 q J 7.5 2H 2.92 2.98 m 2H 2.54 2.60 m 2H 2.14 s 6H 1.21 t J 7.5 3H . Mass spectrum m z 405 M 1 .

Following the procedure used to prepare compound 15 compound 31 110 mg 0.27 mmol gave compound 39 56 mg as a beige foam. Yield 65 . H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.08 dd J 9.6 2.1 1H 7.05 s 1H 6.50 dd J 11.4 2.1 1H 3.26 q J 7.2 2H 2.86 2.90 m 2H 2.72 2.78 m 2H 2.40 s 6H 1.22 t J 7.5 3H . Mass spectrum m z 315 M 1 . Analysis calculated for CHFNOS C 53.49 H 6.09 N 8.91. found C 53.31 H 6.30 N 8.71.

For initial screens a 10 micromolar concentration of each compound dissolved in 10 DMSO was incubated with the appropriate receptor preparation and percent inhibition determined for duplicate determinations each performed in duplicate. Where 50 inhibition of specific binding was measured Kdeterminations were then measured by competition binding assays in which concentrations from 1 to 100 000 nM were incubated in duplicate. For each Kvalue the data represent the mean SD of computer derived estimates for N 4 separate determinations as described Rothman R. Baumann M. Savage J. Rauser L. McBride A. Hufeisen S. Roth B. L. Evidence for Possible Involvement of 5 HTReceptors in the Cardiac Valvulopathy Associated with Fenfluramine and other Serotonergic Medications 2000 102 2836 Roth B. L. Shoham M. Choudhary M. Khan N. Identification of Conserved Aromatic Residues Essential for Agonist Binding and Second Messenger Production at 5 Hydroxytryptamine 2A Receptors 1997 52 259 Roth B. L. Choudhary M. Khan N. Uluer A. High affinity Agonist Binding is not Sufficient for Agonist Efficacy at 5 Hydroxytryptamine 2A Receptors Evidence in Favor of a Modified Ternary Complex Model 1997 280 576 . The results are shown in Table 1.

Phosphoinositide hydrolysis assays were performed with stably 5 HT 5 HT or transiently 5 HT expressed receptors plated in 24 well culture plates. Transfected cells were loaded with 15 Ci mmol 1 mCi mL overnight in inositol free DMEM without serum. The next day phosphate accumulation assays were performed in a modified Krebs bicarbonate buffer. K nmol L and percent V relative to 5 HT values were calculated Roth B. L. Shoham M. Choudhary M. Khan N. Identification of Conserved Aromatic Residues Essential for Agonist Binding and Second Messenger Production at 5 Hydroxytryptamine 2A Receptors 1997 52 259 Roth B. L. Choudhary M. Khan N. Uluer A. High affinity Agonist Binding is not Sufficient for Agonist Efficacy at 5 Hydroxytryptamine 2A Receptors Evidence in Favor of a Modified Ternary Complex Model 1997 280 576 . The results are shown in Table 2.

Functional Assay EC in nM. Data represent mean ECvalues for activation of phospho inositide hydrolysis in cells expressing human 5 HT 5 HTor 5 HTreceptors relative to serotonin at 100 . When the standard deviation is given N 3.

Mice were deprived of food but not water for 18 hours. They were then injected i.p. with test compounds dissolved in 0.9 NaCl containing 1 mg per ml ascorbic acid for protection against oxidation. Each mouse was placed in an individual cage for 30 minutes and then presented with a small petri dish containing a gel made from gelatin powdered milk and sucrose. The dish was weighed at zero time and at 15 minute intervals for the next hour in order to quantitate food consumption. Controls were injected with saline ascorbic acid fenfluramine was used as an active control. Control consumption generally ranged from 1.5 to 2.0 grams. The results are shown in Table 3.

Mice were injected i.p. at intervals of 2 or 3 days and weighed repeatedly 6 or 7 total injections . Controls were injected with saline. Weighing and injection were carried out between 11 AM and 1 PM. The results are shown in Table 4.

Serotonin produces an itch sensation when applied to the human skin and has been suggested to be involved in pruritic diseases. Further research demonstrates that an intraperitoneal IP injection of 5 HT into the rostral back of the mouse elicits scratching with the hind paws which is itch associated rather than a pain response Kuraishi Y. Nagasawa T. Hayashi K. Satoh M. Scratching Behavior Induced by Pruritogenic but not Algesiogenic Agents in Mice 1995 275 229 . The 5 HT action is at least partly mediated by 5 HTreceptors in the skin as shown by blocking with specific antagonists Yamaguchi T. Nagasawa T. Satoh M. Kuraishi Y. Itch associated Response Induced by Intradermal Serotonin Through 5 HT2 Receptors in Mice 1999 35 77 . The effect of test compounds on itch associated scratching in the mice may indicate their action on 5 HT receptors and a study was carried out as an animal model for OCD. The subjects were male Swiss Webster mice 4 6 weeks old weighing 25 45 g. Mice were housed 5 per cage given free access to standard mouse food and water except during experiments and maintained in a temperature controlled room 70 F. . Serotonin and all test drugs were made up with ascorbic acid to protect against oxidation. Two mice one a control the other experimental were tested each time. Each mouse was separately placed into a plexiglas box.

Mice were injected subcutaneously between the shoulder blades with either 0.1 ml of serotonin 0.4 mg per ml in 0.15 M saline plus ascorbic acid 1 mg ml or compound 48 80 the copolymer product of N methyl p methoxyphenethylamine with formaldehyde 1.0 mg ml in saline plus ascorbic acid. Test compounds were injected i.p. 5 minutes before the inducer. The cumulative number of scratches with a hind leg was recorded at 5 minute intervals for 30 minutes. One saline injected control and one test animal were tested together in each assay. The results are shown in Table 5.

The results demonstrate that the number of scratches was decreased when mice were treated with certain compounds of the invention compared to control animals.

The disclosures of each and every patent patent application and publication cited herein are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

Although the invention has been disclosed with reference to specific embodiments it is apparent that other embodiments and variations of the invention may be devised by others skilled in the art without departing from the true spirit and scope of the invention. The claims are intended to be construed to include all such embodiments and equivalent variations.

