---

title: Pyrazolopyrimidine PI3K inhibitor compounds and methods of use
abstract: 

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08987280&OS=08987280&RS=08987280
owner: F. Hoffmann-La Roche AG
number: 08987280
owner_city: Basel
owner_country: CH
publication_date: 20090129
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Ser. No. 61 024 813 filed on 30 Jan. 2008 the entire contents of which are incorporated by reference.

The invention relates generally to compounds with anti cancer activity and more specifically to compounds which inhibit PI3 kinase activity. The invention also relates to methods of using the compounds for in vitro in situ and in vivo diagnosis or treatment of mammalian cells or associated pathological conditions.

Phosphatidylinositol hereinafter abbreviated as PI is one of a number of phospholipids found in cell membranes. In recent years it has become clear that PI plays an important role in intracellular signal transduction. Cell signaling via 3 phosphorylated phosphoinositides has been implicated in a variety of cellular processes e.g. malignant transformation growth factor signaling inflammation and immunity Rameh et al 1999 J. Biol Chem 274 8347 8350 . The enzyme responsible for generating these phosphorylated signaling products phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase also referred to as PI 3 kinase or PI3K was originally identified as an activity associated with viral oncoproteins and growth factor receptor tyrosine kinases that phosphorylate phosphatidylinositol PI and its phosphorylated derivatives at the 3 hydroxyl of the inositol ring Panayotou et al 1992 Trends Cell Biol 2 358 60 .

Phosphoinositide 3 kinases PI3K are lipid kinases that phosphorylate lipids at the 3 hydroxyl residue of an inositol ring Whitman et al 1988 Nature 332 664 . The 3 phosphorylated phospholipids PIP3s generated by PI3 kinases act as second messengers recruiting kinases with lipid binding domains including plekstrin homology PH regions such as Akt and phosphoinositide dependent kinase 1 PDK1 . Binding of Akt to membrane PIP3s causes the translocation of Akt to the plasma membrane bringing Akt into contact with PDK1 which is responsible for activating Akt. The tumor suppressor phosphatase PTEN dephosphorylates PIP3 and therefore acts as a negative regulator of Akt activation. The PI3 kinases Akt and PDK1 are important in the regulation of many cellular processes including cell cycle regulation proliferation survival apoptosis and motility and are significant components of the molecular mechanisms of diseases such as cancer diabetes and immune inflammation Vivanco et al 2002 Nature Rev. Cancer 2 489 Phillips et al 1998 Cancer 83 41 .

The main PI3 kinase isoform in cancer is the Class I PI3 kinase p110 alpha U.S. Pat. No. 5 824 492 U.S. Pat. No. 5 846 824 U.S. Pat. No. 6 274 327 . Other isoforms are implicated in cardiovascular and immune inflammatory disease Workman P 2004 Biochem Soc Trans 32 393 396 Patel et al 2004 Proceedings of the American Association of Cancer Research Abstract LB 247 95th Annual Meeting March 27 31 Orlando Fla. USA Ahmadi K and Waterfield M D 2004 Encyclopedia of Biological Chemistry Lennarz W J Lane M D eds Elsevier Academic Press .

The PI3 kinase Akt PTEN pathway is an attractive target for cancer drug development since such agents would be expected to inhibit proliferation reverse the repression of apoptosis and surmount resistance to cytotoxic agents in cancer cells. PI3 kinase inhibitors have been reported Yaguchi et al 2006 Jour. of the Nat. Cancer Inst. 98 8 545 556 U.S. Pat. No. 7 173 029 U.S. Pat. No. 7 037 915 U.S. Pat. No. 6 608 056 U.S. Pat. No. 6 608 053 U.S. Pat. No. 6 838 457 U.S. Pat. No. 6 770 641 U.S. Pat. No. 6 653 320 U.S. Pat. No. 6 403 588 U.S. Pat. No. 6 703 414 WO 97 15658 WO 2006 046031 WO 2006 046035 WO 2006 046040 WO 2007 042806 WO 2007 042810 WO 2004 017950 US 2004 092561 WO 2004 007491 WO 2004 006916 WO 2003 037886 US 2003 149074 WO 2003 035618 WO 2003 034997 US 2003 158212 EP 1417976 US 2004 053946 JP 2001247477 JP 08175990 JP 08176070 .

Certain thienopyrimidine compounds have p110 alpha binding PI3 kinase inhibitory activity and inhibit the growth of cancer cells WO 2006 046031 WO 2007 122410 WO 2007 127183 WO 2007 129161 U.S. Ser. No. 11 951 189 PHOSPHOINOSITIDE 3 KINASE INHIBITOR COMPOUNDS AND METHODS OF USE Castanedo et al Filing Date Dec. 5 2007 U.S. Ser. No. 11 951 203 PHOSPHOINOSITIDE 3 KINASE INHIBITOR COMPOUNDS AND METHODS OF USE Bayliss et al Filing Date Dec. 5 2007 .

The invention relates generally to pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidines compounds of Formula I with anti cancer activity and more specifically with PI3 kinase inhibitory activity. Certain hyperproliferative disorders are characterized by the modulation of PI3 kinase function for example by mutations or overexpression of the proteins. Accordingly the compounds of the invention may be useful in the treatment of hyperproliferative disorders such as cancer. The compounds may inhibit tumor growth in mammals and may be useful for treating human cancer patients.

The invention also relates to methods of using the pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidines compounds of Formula I for in vitro in situ and in vivo diagnosis or treatment of mammalian cells organisms or associated pathological conditions.

and stereoisomers geometric isomers tautomers or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof. The various substituents R R R Rare as defined herein.

Another aspect of the invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine compound of Formula I and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The pharmaceutical composition may further comprise one or more additional therapeutic agent.

Another aspect of the invention provides methods of inhibiting PI3 kinase activity comprising contacting a PI3 kinase with an effective inhibitory amount of a compound of Formula I or a stereoisomer geometric isomer tautomer or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

Another aspect of the invention provides methods of preventing or treating a hyperproliferative disease or disorder modulated by PI3 kinases comprising administering to a mammal in need of such treatment an effective amount of a compound of Formula I or a stereoisomer geometric isomer tautomer or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. Examples of such hyperproliferative disease or disorder include but are not limited to cancer.

Another aspect of the invention provides methods of preventing or treating a hyperproliferative disorder comprising administering to a mammal in need of such treatment an effective amount of a compound of Formula I or a stereoisomer geometric isomer tautomer or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof alone or in combination with one or more additional compounds having anti hyperproliferative properties.

In a further aspect the present invention provides a method of using a compound of this invention to treat a hyperproliferative disease or condition modulated by PI3 kinase in a mammal.

An additional aspect of the invention is the use of a compound of this invention in the preparation of a medicament for the treatment or prevention of a disease or condition modulated by PI3 kinase in a mammal.

Another aspect of the invention includes kits comprising a compound of Formula I or a stereoisomer geometric isomer tautomer solvate metabolite or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof a container and optionally a package insert or label indicating a treatment.

Another aspect of the invention includes methods of preparing methods of separating and methods of purifying compounds of Formula I.

Another aspect of the invention includes novel intermediates useful for preparing Formula I compounds.

Additional advantages and novel features of this invention shall be set forth in part in the description that follows and in part will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon examination of the following specification or may be learned by the practice of the invention. The advantages of the invention may be realized and attained by means of the instrumentalities combinations compositions and methods particularly pointed out in the appended claims.

Reference will now be made in detail to certain embodiments of the invention examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying structures and formulas. While the invention will be described in conjunction with the enumerated embodiments it will be understood that they are not intended to limit the invention to those embodiments. On the contrary the invention is intended to cover all alternatives modifications and equivalents which may be included within the scope of the present invention as defined by the claims. One skilled in the art will recognize many methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein which could be used in the practice of the present invention. The present invention is in no way limited to the methods and materials described. In the event that one or more of the incorporated literature patents and similar materials differs from or contradicts this application including but not limited to defined terms term usage described techniques or the like this application controls.

The term alkyl as used herein refers to a saturated linear or branched chain monovalent hydrocarbon radical of one to twelve carbon atoms C C wherein the alkyl radical may be optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described below. In another embodiment an alkyl radical is one to eight carbon atoms C C or one to six carbon atoms C C . Examples of alkyl groups include but are not limited to methyl Me CH ethyl Et CHCH 1 propyl n Pr n propyl CHCHCH 2 propyl i Pr i propyl CH CH 1 butyl n Bu n butyl CHCHCHCH 2 methyl 1 propyl i Bu i butyl CHCH CH 2 butyl s Bu s butyl CH CH CHCH 2 methyl 2 propyl t Bu t butyl C CH 1 pentyl n pentyl CHCHCHCHCH 2 pentyl CH CH CHCHCH 3 pentyl CH CHCH 2 methyl 2 butyl C CH CHCH 3 methyl 2 butyl CH CH CH CH 3 methyl 1 butyl CHCHCH CH 2 methyl 1 butyl CHCH CH CHCH 1 hexyl CHCHCHCHCHCH 2 hexyl CH CH CHCHCHCH 3 hexyl CH CHCH CHCHCH 2 methyl 2 pentyl C CH CHCHCH 3 methyl 2 pentyl CH CH CH CH CHCH 4 methyl 2 pentyl CH CH CHCH CH 3 methyl 3 pentyl C CH CHCH 2 methyl 3 pentyl CH CHCH CH CH 2 3 dimethyl 2 butyl C CH CH CH 3 3 dimethyl 2 butyl CH CH C CH 1 heptyl 1 octyl and the like.

The term alkylene as used herein refers to a saturated linear or branched chain divalent hydrocarbon radical of one to twelve carbon atoms C C wherein the alkylene radical may be optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described below. In another embodiment an alkylene radical is one to eight carbon atoms C C or one to six carbon atoms C C . Examples of alkylene groups include but are not limited to methylene CH ethylene CHCH propylene CHCHCH and the like.

The term alkenyl refers to linear or branched chain monovalent hydrocarbon radical of two to eight carbon atoms C C with at least one site of unsaturation i.e. a carbon carbon spdouble bond wherein the alkenyl radical may be optionally substituted and includes radicals having cis and trans orientations or alternatively E and Z orientations. Examples include but are not limited to ethylenyl or vinyl CH CH allyl CHCH CH and the like.

The term alkenylene refers to linear or branched chain divalent hydrocarbon radical of two to eight carbon atoms C C with at least one site of unsaturation i.e. a carbon carbon spdouble bond wherein the alkenyl radical may be optionally substituted and includes radicals having cis and trans orientations or alternatively E and Z orientations. Examples include but are not limited to ethylenylene or vinylene CH CH allyl CHCH CH and the like.

The term alkynyl refers to a linear or branched monovalent hydrocarbon radical of two to eight carbon atoms C C with at least one site of unsaturation i.e. a carbon carbon sp triple bond wherein the alkynyl radical may be optionally substituted. Examples include but are not limited to ethynyl C CH propynyl propargyl CHC CH and the like.

The term alkynylene refers to a linear or branched divalent hydrocarbon radical of two to eight carbon atoms C C with at least one site of unsaturation i.e. a carbon carbon sp triple bond wherein the alkynyl radical may be optionally. Examples include but are not limited to ethynylene C C propynylene propargylene CHC C and the like.

The terms carbocycle carbocyclyl carbocyclic ring and cycloalkyl refer to a monovalent non aromatic saturated or partially unsaturated ring having 3 to 12 carbon atoms C C as a monocyclic ring or 7 to 12 carbon atoms as a bicyclic ring. Bicyclic carbocycles having 7 to 12 atoms can be arranged for example as a bicyclo 4 5 5 5 5 6 or 6 6 system and bicyclic carbocycles having 9 or 10 ring atoms can be arranged as a bicyclo 5 6 or 6 6 system or as bridged systems such as bicyclo 2.2.1 heptane bicyclo 2.2.2 octane and bicyclo 3.2.2 nonane. Examples of monocyclic carbocycles include but are not limited to cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl 1 cyclopent 1 enyl 1 cyclopent 2 enyl 1 cyclopent 3 enyl cyclohexyl 1 cyclohex 1 enyl 1 cyclohex 2 enyl 1 cyclohex 3 enyl cyclohexadienyl cycloheptyl cyclooctyl cyclononyl cyclodecyl cycloundecyl cyclododecyl and the like.

 Aryl means a monovalent aromatic hydrocarbon radical of 6 20 carbon atoms C C derived by the removal of one hydrogen atom from a single carbon atom of a parent aromatic ring system. Some aryl groups are represented in the exemplary structures as Ar . Aryl includes bicyclic radicals comprising an aromatic ring fused to a saturated partially unsaturated ring or aromatic carbocyclic ring. Typical aryl groups include but are not limited to radicals derived from benzene phenyl substituted benzenes naphthalene anthracene biphenyl indenyl indanyl 1 2 dihydronaphthalene 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthyl and the like. Aryl groups are optionally substituted.

 Arylene means a divalent aromatic hydrocarbon radical of 6 20 carbon atoms C C derived by the removal of two hydrogen atom from a two carbon atoms of a parent aromatic ring system. Some arylene groups are represented in the exemplary structures as Ar . Arylene includes bicyclic radicals comprising an aromatic ring fused to a saturated partially unsaturated ring or aromatic carbocyclic ring. Typical arylene groups include but are not limited to radicals derived from benzene phenylene substituted benzenes naphthalene anthracene biphenylene indenylene indanylene 1 2 dihydronaphthalene 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthyl and the like. Arylene groups are optionally substituted

The terms heterocycle heterocyclyl and heterocyclic ring are used interchangeably herein and refer to a saturated or a partially unsaturated i.e. having one or more double and or triple bonds within the ring carbocyclic radical of 3 to about 20 ring atoms in which at least one ring atom is a heteroatom selected from nitrogen oxygen phosphorus and sulfur the remaining ring atoms being C where one or more ring atoms is optionally substituted for example with oxo O mercapto or amino etc. A heterocycle may be a monocycle having 3 to 7 ring members 2 to 6 carbon atoms and 1 to 4 heteroatoms selected from N O P and S or a bicycle having 7 to 10 ring members 4 to 9 carbon atoms and 1 to 6 heteroatoms selected from N O P and S for example a bicyclo 4 5 5 5 5 6 or 6 6 system. Heterocycles are described in Paquette Leo A. Principles of Modern Heterocyclic Chemistry W. A. Benjamin New York 1968 particularly Chapters 1 3 4 6 7 and 9 The Chemistry of Heterocyclic Compounds A series of Monographs John Wiley Sons New York 1950 to present in particular Volumes 13 14 16 19 and 28 and J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1960 82 5566. Heterocyclyl also includes radicals where heterocycle radicals are fused with a saturated partially unsaturated ring or aromatic carbocyclic or heterocyclic ring. Examples of heterocyclic rings include but are not limited to pyrrolidinyl tetrahydrofuranyl dihydrofuranyl tetrahydrothienyl tetrahydropyranyl dihydropyranyl tetrahydrothiopyranyl piperidino morpholino thiomorpholino thioxanyl piperazinyl homopiperazinyl azetidinyl oxetanyl thietanyl homopiperidinyl oxepanyl thiepanyl oxazepinyl diazepinyl thiazepinyl 2 pyrrolinyl 3 pyrrolinyl indolinyl 2H pyranyl 4H pyranyl dioxanyl 1 3 dioxolanyl pyrazolinyl dithianyl dithiolanyl dihydropyranyl dihydrothienyl dihydrofuranyl pyrazolidinylimidazolinyl imidazolidinyl 3 azabicyco 3.1.0 hexanyl 3 azabicyclo 4.1.0 heptanyl azabicyclo 2.2.2 hexanyl 3H indolyl quinolizinyl 1H benzo d imidazol 2 3H one 5 yl and N pyridyl ureas. Spiro moieties are also included within the scope of this definition. Examples of a heterocyclic group substituted with one or more oxo O moieties are pyrimidinonyl and 1 1 dioxo thiomorpholinyl.

The term heteroaryl refers to a monovalent aromatic radical of 5 6 or 7 membered rings and includes fused ring systems at least one of which is aromatic of 5 to about 20 ring atoms containing one or more heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulfur. Examples of heteroaryl groups are pyridinyl including for example 2 hydroxypyridinyl imidazolyl imidazopyridinyl pyrimidinyl including for example 4 hydroxypyrimidinyl pyrazolyl triazolyl pyrazinyl tetrazolyl furyl thienyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl oxadiazolyl oxazolyl isothiazolyl pyrrolyl quinolinyl isoquinolinyl tetrahydroisoquinolinyl indolyl benzimidazolyl benzofuranyl cinnolinyl indazolyl indolizinyl phthalazinyl pyridazinyl triazinyl isoindolyl pteridinyl purinyl oxadiazolyl triazolyl thiadiazolyl thiadiazolyl furazanyl benzofurazanyl benzothiophenyl benzothiazolyl benzoxazolyl quinazolinyl quinoxalinyl naphthyridinyl and furopyridinyl. Heteroaryl groups are optionally substituted.

The heterocycle or heteroaryl groups may be carbon carbon linked or nitrogen nitrogen linked bonded where such is possible. By way of example and not limitation carbon bonded heterocycles or heteroaryls are bonded at position 2 3 4 5 or 6 of a pyridine position 3 4 5 or 6 of a pyridazine position 2 4 5 or 6 of a pyrimidine position 2 3 5 or 6 of a pyrazine position 2 3 4 or 5 of a furan tetrahydrofuran thiofuran thiophene pyrrole or tetrahydropyrrole position 2 4 or 5 of an oxazole imidazole or thiazole position 3 4 or 5 of an isoxazole pyrazole or isothiazole position 2 or 3 of an aziridine position 2 3 or 4 of an azetidine position 2 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 of a quinoline or position 1 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 of an isoquinoline.

By way of example and not limitation nitrogen bonded heterocycles or heteroaryls are bonded at position 1 of an aziridine azetidine pyrrole pyrrolidine 2 pyrroline 3 pyrroline imidazole imidazolidine 2 imidazoline 3 imidazoline pyrazole pyrazoline 2 pyrazoline 3 pyrazoline piperidine piperazine indole indoline 1H indazole position 2 of a isoindole or isoindoline position 4 of a morpholine and position 9 of a carbazole or carboline.

The term monocyclic heteroaryl refers to a five or six membered unsubstituted or substituted monocyclic heteroaryl radical which contains 1 2 3 or 4 ring heteroatoms independently selected from N O and S. The monocyclic heteroaryl may be attached to the C 4 and C 6 positions of the pyrimidine ring according to Formula I at any carbon carbon linked atom of the monocyclic heteroaryl Rgroup. Monocyclic heteroaryl radicals include but are not limited to 2 pyridyl 3 pyridyl 4 pyridyl 3 isoxazolyl 4 isoxazolyl 5 isoxazolyl 2 imidazolyl 4 imidazolyl 3 pyrazolyl 4 pyrazolyl 2 pyrrolyl 3 pyrrolyl 2 thiazolyl 4 thiazolyl 5 thiazolyl 3 pyridazinyl 4 pyridazinyl 5 pyridazinyl 2 pyrimidinyl 5 pyrimidinyl 6 pyrimidinyl 2 pyrazinyl 2 oxazolyl 4 oxazolyl 5 oxazolyl 2 furanyl 3 furanyl 2 thienyl 3 thienyl 3 triazolyl 1 triazolyl 5 tetrazolyl 1 tetrazolyl and 2 tetrazolyl. Monocyclic heteroaryls are optionally substituted.

 Fused bicyclic C Cheterocyclyl and Fused bicyclic C Cheteroaryl containing one or more heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulfur differ only by their aromatic character and have two rings fused together i.e. share a common bond. Fused bicyclic heterocyclyl and heteroaryl radicals may be attached to the C 4 and C 6 positions of the pyrimidine ring according to Formula I at any carbon carbon linked atom of the fused bicyclic C Cheterocyclyl or fused bicyclic C Cheteroaryl group Rgroup. Fused bicyclic heterocyclyl and heteroaryl radicals include but are not limited to 1H indazole 1H indole indolin 2 one 1 indolin 1 yl ethanone 1H benzo d 1 2 3 triazole 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridine 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 1H benzo d imidazole 1H benzo d imidazol 2 3H one 1H pyrazolo 3 4 c pyridine 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridine 311 imidazo 4 5 c pyridine 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine 7H purine 1H pyrazolo 4 3 d pyrimidine 5H pyrrolo 3 2 d pyrimidine 2 amino 1H purin 6 9H one quinoline quinazoline quinoxaline isoquinoline isoquinolin 1 2H one 3 4 dihydroisoquinolin 1 2H one 3 4 dihydroquinolin 2 1H one quinazolin 2 1H one quinoxalin 2 1H one 1 8 naphthyridine pyrido 3 4 d pyrimidine pyrido 3 2 b pyrazine benzo d 1 3 dioxole and 2 3 dihydrobenzo b 1 4 dioxine.

The terms treat and treatment refer to both therapeutic treatment and prophylactic or preventative measures wherein the object is to prevent or slow down lessen an undesired physiological change or disorder such as the development or spread of cancer. For purposes of this invention beneficial or desired clinical results include but are not limited to alleviation of symptoms diminishment of extent of disease stabilized i.e. not worsening state of disease delay or slowing of disease progression amelioration or palliation of the disease state and remission whether partial or total whether detectable or undetectable. Treatment can also mean prolonging survival as compared to expected survival if not receiving treatment. Those in need of treatment include those already with the condition or disorder as well as those prone to have the condition or disorder or those in which the condition or disorder is to be prevented.

The phrase therapeutically effective amount means an amount of a compound of the present invention that i treats or prevents the particular disease condition or disorder ii attenuates ameliorates or eliminates one or more symptoms of the particular disease condition or disorder or iii prevents or delays the onset of one or more symptoms of the particular disease condition or disorder described herein. In the case of cancer the therapeutically effective amount of the drug may reduce the number of cancer cells reduce the tumor size inhibit i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop cancer cell infiltration into peripheral organs inhibit i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop tumor metastasis inhibit to some extent tumor growth and or relieve to some extent one or more of the symptoms associated with the cancer. To the extent the drug may prevent growth and or kill existing cancer cells it may be cytostatic and or cytotoxic. For cancer therapy efficacy can be measured for example by assessing the time to disease progression TTP and or determining the response rate RR .

The terms cancer and cancerous refer to or describe the physiological condition in mammals that is typically characterized by unregulated cell growth. A tumor comprises one or more cancerous cells. Examples of cancer include but are not limited to carcinoma lymphoma blastoma sarcoma and leukemia or lymphoid malignancies. More particular examples of such cancers include squamous cell cancer e.g. epithelial squamous cell cancer lung cancer including small cell lung cancer non small cell lung cancer NSCLC adenocarcinoma of the lung and squamous carcinoma of the lung cancer of the peritoneum hepatocellular cancer gastric or stomach cancer including gastrointestinal cancer pancreatic cancer glioblastoma cervical cancer ovarian cancer liver cancer bladder cancer hepatoma breast cancer colon cancer rectal cancer colorectal cancer endometrial or uterine carcinoma salivary gland carcinoma kidney or renal cancer prostate cancer vulval cancer thyroid cancer hepatic carcinoma anal carcinoma penile carcinoma as well as head and neck cancer.

A chemotherapeutic agent is a chemical compound useful in the treatment of cancer regardless of mechanism of action. Classes of chemotherapeutic agents include but are not limited to alkylating agents antimetabolites spindle poison plant alkaloids cytotoxic antitumor antibiotics topoisomerase inhibitors antibodies photosensitizers and kinase inhibitors. Chemotherapeutic agents include compounds used in targeted therapy and conventional chemotherapy. Examples of chemotherapeutic agents include erlotinib TARCEVA Genentech OSI Pharm. docetaxel TAXOTERE Sanofi Aventis 5 FU fluorouracil 5 fluorouracil CAS No. 51 21 8 gemcitabine GEMZAR Lilly PD 0325901 CAS No. 391210 10 9 Pfizer cisplatin cis diamine dichloroplatinum II CAS No. 15663 27 1 carboplatin CAS No. 41575 94 4 paclitaxel TAXOL Bristol Myers Squibb Oncology Princeton N.J. trastuzumab HERCEPTIN Genentech temozolomide 4 methyl 5 oxo 2 3 4 6 8 pentazabicyclo 4.3.0 nona 2 7 9 triene 9 carboxamide CAS No. 85622 93 1 TEMODAR TEMODAL Schering Plough tamoxifen Z 2 4 1 2 diphenylbut 1 enyl phenoxy N N dimethyl ethanamine NOLVADEX ISTUBAL VALODEX doxorubicin ADRIAMYCIN Akti 1 2 HPPD and rapamycin.

More examples of chemotherapeutic agents include oxaliplatin ELOXATIN Sanofi bortezomib VELCADE Millennium Pharm. sutent SUNITINIB SU11248 Pfizer letrozole FEMARA Novartis imatinib mesylate GLEEVEC Novartis XL 518 Mek inhibitor Exelixis WO 2007 044515 ARRY 886 Mek inhibitor AZD6244 Array BioPharma Astra Zeneca SF 1126 PI3K inhibitor Semafore Pharmaceuticals BEZ 235 PI3K inhibitor Novartis XL 147 PI3K inhibitor Exelixis PTK787 ZK 222584 Novartis fulvestrant FASLODEX AstraZeneca leucovorin folinic acid rapamycin sirolimus RAPAMUNE Wyeth lapatinib TYKERB GSK572016 Glaxo Smith Kline lonafarnib SARASAR SCH 66336 Schering Plough sorafenib NEXAVAR BAY43 9006 Bayer Labs gefitinib IRESSA AstraZeneca irinotecan CAMPTOSAR CPT 11 Pfizer tipifarnib ZARNESTRA Johnson Johnson ABRAXANE Cremophor free albumin engineered nanoparticle formulations of paclitaxel American Pharmaceutical Partners Schaumberg Il vandetanib rINN ZD6474 ZACTIMA AstraZeneca chloranmbucil AG1478 AG1571 SU 5271 Sugen temsirolimus TORISEL Wyeth pazopanib GlaxoSmithKline canfosfamide TELCYTA Telik thiotepa and cyclosphosphamide CYTOXAN NEOSAR alkyl sulfonates such as busulfan improsulfan and piposulfan aziridines such as benzodopa carboquone meturedopa and uredopa ethylenimines and methylamelamines including altretamine triethylenemelamine triethylenephosphoramide triethylenethiophosphoramide and trimethylomelamine acetogenins especially bullatacin and bullatacinone a camptothecin including the synthetic analog topotecan bryostatin callystatin CC 1065 including its adozelesin carzelesin and bizelesin synthetic analogs cryptophycins particularly cryptophycin 1 and cryptophycin 8 dolastatin duocarmycin including the synthetic analogs KW 2189 and CB1 TM1 eleutherobin pancratistatin a sarcodictyin spongistatin nitrogen mustards such as chlorambucil chlornaphazine chlorophosphamide estramustine ifosfamide mechlorethamine mechlorethamine oxide hydrochloride melphalan novembichin phenesterine prednimustine trofosfamide uracil mustard nitrosoureas such as carmustine chlorozotocin fotemustine lomustine nimustine and ranimnustine antibiotics such as the enediyne antibiotics e.g. calicheamicin calicheamicin gamma1I calicheamicin omegaI1 Angew Chem. Intl. Ed. Engl. 1994 33 183 186 dynemicin dynemicin A bisphosphonates such as clodronate an esperamicin as well as neocarzinostatin chromophore and related chromoprotein enediyne antibiotic chromophores aclacinomysins actinomycin authramycin azaserine bleomycins cactinomycin carabicin carminomycin carzinophilin chromomycinis dactinomycin daunorubicin detorubicin 6 diazo 5 oxo L norleucine morpholino doxorubicin cyanomorpholino doxorubicin 2 pyrrolino doxorubicin and deoxydoxorubicin epirubicin esorubicin idarubicin marcellomycin mitomycins such as mitomycin C mycophenolic acid nogalamycin olivomycins peplomycin porfiromycin puromycin quelamycin rodorubicin streptonigrin streptozocin tubercidin ubenimex zinostatin zorubicin anti metabolites such as methotrexate and 5 fluorouracil 5 FU folic acid analogs such as denopterin methotrexate pteropterin trimetrexate purine analogs such as fludarabine 6 mercaptopurine thiamiprine thioguanine pyrimidine analogs such as ancitabine azacitidine 6 azauridine carmofur cytarabine dideoxyuridine doxifluridine enocitabine floxuridine androgens such as calusterone dromostanolone propionate epitiostanol mepitiostane testolactone anti adrenals such as aminoglutethimide mitotane trilostane folic acid replenisher such as frolinic acid aceglatone aldophosphamide glycoside aminolevulinic acid eniluracil amsacrine bestrabucil bisantrene edatraxate defofamine demecolcine diaziquone elformithine elliptinium acetate an epothilone etoglucid gallium nitrate hydroxyurea lentinan lonidainine maytansinoids such as maytansine and ansamitocins mitoguazone mitoxantrone mopidanmol nitraerine pentostatin phenamet pirarubicin losoxantrone podophyllinic acid 2 ethylhydrazide procarbazine PSK polysaccharide complex JHS Natural Products Eugene Oreg. razoxane rhizoxin sizofiran spirogermanium tenuazonic acid triaziquone 2 2 2 trichlorotriethylamine trichothecenes especially T 2 toxin verracurin A roridin A and anguidine urethan vindesine dacarbazine mannomustine mitobronitol mitolactol pipobroman gacytosine arabinoside Ara C cyclophosphamide thiotepa 6 thioguanine mercaptopurine methotrexate platinum analogs such as cisplatin and carboplatin vinblastine etoposide VP 16 ifosfamide mitoxantrone vincristine vinorelbine NAVELBINE novantrone teniposide edatrexate daunomycin aminopterin capecitabine XELODA Roche ibandronate CPT 11 topoisomerase inhibitor RFS 2000 difluoromethylornithine DMFO retinoids such as retinoic acid and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids and derivatives of any of the above.

Also included in the definition of chemotherapeutic agent are i anti hormonal agents that act to regulate or inhibit hormone action on tumors such as anti estrogens and selective estrogen receptor modulators SERMs including for example tamoxifen including NOLVADEX tamoxifen citrate raloxifene droloxifene 4 hydroxytamoxifen trioxifene keoxifene LY117018 onapristone and FARESTON toremifine citrate ii aromatase inhibitors that inhibit the enzyme aromatase which regulates estrogen production in the adrenal glands such as for example 4 5 imidazoles aminoglutethimide MEGASE megestrol acetate AROMASIN exemestane Pfizer formestanie fadrozole RIVISOR vorozole FEMARA letrozole Novartis and ARIMIDEX anastrozole AstraZeneca iii anti androgens such as flutamide nilutamide bicalutamide leuprolide and goserelin as well as troxacitabine a 1 3 dioxolane nucleoside cytosine analog iv protein kinase inhibitors such as MEK inhibitors WO 2007 044515 v lipid kinase inhibitors vi antisense oligonucleotides particularly those which inhibit expression of genes in signaling pathways implicated in aberrant cell proliferation for example PKC alpha Raf and H Ras such as oblimersen GENASENSE Genta Inc. vii ribozymes such as VEGF expression inhibitors e.g. ANGIOZYME and HER2 expression inhibitors viii vaccines such as gene therapy vaccines for example ALLOVECTIN LEUVECTIN and VAXID PROLEUKIN rIL 2 topoisomerase 1 inhibitors such as LURTOTECAN ABARELIX rmRH ix anti angiogenic agents such as bevacizumab AVASTIN Genentech and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids and derivatives of any of the above.

Also included in the definition of chemotherapeutic agent are therapeutic antibodies such as alemtuzumab Campath bevacizumab AVASTIN Genentech cetuximab ERBITUX Imclone panitumumab VECTIBIX Amgen rituximab RITUXAN Genentech Biogen Idec pertuzumab OMNITARG 2C4 Genentech trastuzumab HERCEPTIN Genentech tositumomab Bexxar Corixia and the antibody drug conjugate gemtuzumab ozogamicin MYLOTARG Wyeth .

Humanized monoclonal antibodies with therapeutic potential as chemotherapeutic agents in combination with the PI3K inhibitors of the invention include alemtuzumab apolizumab aselizumab atlizumab bapineuzumab bevacizumab bivatuzumab mertansine cantuzumab mertansine cedelizumab certolizumab pegol cidfusituzumab cidtuzumab daclizumab eculizumab efalizumab epratuzumab erlizumab felvizumab fontolizumab gemtuzumab ozogamicin inotuzumab ozogamicin ipilimumab labetuzumab lintuzumab matuzumab mepolizumab motavizumab motovizumab natalizumab nimotuzumab nolovizumab numavizumab ocrelizumab omalizumab palivizumab pascolizumab pecfusituzumab pectuzumab pertuzumab pexelizumab ralivizumab ranibizumab reslivizumab reslizumab resyvizumab rovelizumab ruplizumab sibrotuzumab siplizumab sontuzumab tacatuzumab tetraxetan tadocizumab talizumab tefibazumab tocilizumab toralizumab trastuzumab tucotuzumab celmoleukin tucusituzumab umavizumab urtoxazumab and visilizumab.

A metabolite is a product produced through metabolism in the body of a specified compound or salt thereof. Metabolites of a compound may be identified using routine techniques known in the art and their activities determined using tests such as those described herein. Such products may result for example from the oxidation reduction hydrolysis amidation deamidation esterification deesterification enzymatic cleavage and the like of the administered compound. Accordingly the invention includes metabolites of compounds of the invention including compounds produced by a process comprising contacting a compound of this invention with a mammal for a period of time sufficient to yield a metabolic product thereof.

The term package insert is used to refer to instructions customarily included in commercial packages of therapeutic products that contain information about the indications usage dosage administration contraindications and or warnings concerning the use of such therapeutic products.

The term chiral refers to molecules which have the property of non superimposability of the mirror image partner while the term achiral refers to molecules which are superimposable on their mirror image partner.

The term stereoisomers refers to compounds which have identical chemical constitution but differ with regard to the arrangement of the atoms or groups in space.

 Diastereomer refers to a stereoisomer with two or more centers of chirality and whose molecules are not mirror images of one another. Diastereomers have different physical properties e.g. melting points boiling points spectral properties and reactivities. Mixtures of diastereomers may separate under high resolution analytical procedures such as electrophoresis and chromatography.

 Enantiomers refer to two stereoisomers of a compound which are non superimposable mirror images of one another.

Stereochemical definitions and conventions used herein generally follow S. P. Parker Ed. 1984 McGraw Hill Book Company New York and Eliel E. and Wilen S. Stereochemistry of Organic Compounds John Wiley Sons Inc. New York 1994. The compounds of the invention may contain asymmetric or chiral centers and therefore exist in different stereoisomeric forms. It is intended that all stereoisomeric forms of the compounds of the invention including but not limited to diastereomers enantiomers and atropisomers as well as mixtures thereof such as racemic mixtures form part of the present invention. Many organic compounds exist in optically active forms i.e. they have the ability to rotate the plane of plane polarized light. In describing an optically active compound the prefixes D and L or R and S are used to denote the absolute configuration of the molecule about its chiral center s . The prefixes d and l or and are employed to designate the sign of rotation of plane polarized light by the compound with or l meaning that the compound is levorotatory. A compound prefixed with or d is dextrorotatory. For a given chemical structure these stereoisomers are identical except that they are mirror images of one another. A specific stereoisomer may also be referred to as an enantiomer and a mixture of such isomers is often called an enantiomeric mixture. A 50 50 mixture of enantiomers is referred to as a racemic mixture or a racemate which may occur where there has been no stereoselection or stereospecificity in a chemical reaction or process. The terms racemic mixture and racemate refer to an equimolar mixture of two enantiomeric species devoid of optical activity.

The term tautomer or tautomeric form refers to structural isomers of different energies which are interconvertible via a low energy barrier. For example proton tautomers also known as prototropic tautomers include interconversions via migration of a proton such as keto enol and imine enamine isomerizations. Valence tautomers include interconversions by reorganization of some of the bonding electrons.

The phrase pharmaceutically acceptable salt as used herein refers to pharmaceutically acceptable organic or inorganic salts of a compound of the invention. Exemplary salts include but are not limited to sulfate citrate acetate oxalate chloride bromide iodide nitrate bisulfate phosphate acid phosphate isonicotinate lactate salicylate acid citrate tartrate oleate tannate pantothenate bitartrate ascorbate succinate maleate gentisinate fumarate gluconate glucuronate saccharate formate benzoate glutamate methanesulfonate mesylate ethanesulfonate benzenesulfonate p toluenesulfonate and pamoate i.e. 1 1 methylene bis 2 hydroxy 3 naphthoate salts. A pharmaceutically acceptable salt may involve the inclusion of another molecule such as an acetate ion a succinate ion or other counter ion. The counter ion may be any organic or inorganic moiety that stabilizes the charge on the parent compound. Furthermore a pharmaceutically acceptable salt may have more than one charged atom in its structure. Instances where multiple charged atoms are part of the pharmaceutically acceptable salt can have multiple counter ions. Hence a pharmaceutically acceptable salt can have one or more charged atoms and or one or more counter ion.

If the compound of the invention is a base the desired pharmaceutically acceptable salt may be prepared by any suitable method available in the art for example treatment of the free base with an inorganic acid such as hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid sulfuric acid nitric acid methanesulfonic acid phosphoric acid and the like or with an organic acid such as acetic acid trifluoroacetic acid maleic acid succinic acid mandelic acid fumaric acid malonic acid pyruvic acid oxalic acid glycolic acid salicylic acid a pyranosidyl acid such as glucuronic acid or galacturonic acid an alpha hydroxy acid such as citric acid or tartaric acid an amino acid such as aspartic acid or glutamic acid an aromatic acid such as benzoic acid or cinnamic acid a sulfonic acid such as p toluenesulfonic acid or ethanesulfonic acid or the like.

If the compound of the invention is an acid the desired pharmaceutically acceptable salt may be prepared by any suitable method for example treatment of the free acid with an inorganic or organic base such as an amine primary secondary or tertiary an alkali metal hydroxide or alkaline earth metal hydroxide or the like. Illustrative examples of suitable salts include but are not limited to organic salts derived from amino acids such as glycine and arginine ammonia primary secondary and tertiary amines and cyclic amines such as piperidine morpholine and piperazine and inorganic salts derived from sodium calcium potassium magnesium manganese iron copper zinc aluminum and lithium.

The phrase pharmaceutically acceptable indicates that the substance or composition must be compatible chemically and or toxicologically with the other ingredients comprising a formulation and or the mammal being treated therewith.

A solvate refers to an association or complex of one or more solvent molecules and a compound of the invention. Examples of solvents that form solvates include but are not limited to water isopropanol ethanol methanol DMSO ethyl acetate acetic acid and ethanolamine. The term hydrate refers to the complex where the solvent molecule is water.

The term protecting group refers to a substituent that is commonly employed to block or protect a particular functionality while reacting other functional groups on the compound. For example an amino protecting group is a substituent attached to an amino group that blocks or protects the amino functionality in the compound. Suitable amino protecting groups include acetyl trifluoroacetyl t butoxycarbonyl BOC benzyloxycarbonyl CBZ and 9 fluorenylmethylenoxycarbonyl Fmoc . Similarly a hydroxy protecting group refers to a substituent of a hydroxy group that blocks or protects the hydroxy functionality. Suitable protecting groups include acetyl and silyl. A carboxy protecting group refers to a substituent of the carboxy group that blocks or protects the carboxy functionality. Common carboxy protecting groups include phenylsulfonylethyl cyanoethyl 2 trimethylsilyl ethyl 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxymethyl 2 p toluenesulfonyl ethyl 2 p nitrophenylsulfenyl ethyl 2 diphenylphosphino ethyl nitroethyl and the like. For a general description of protecting groups and their use see T. W. Greene Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis John Wiley Sons New York 1991.

The terms compound of this invention and compounds of the present invention and compounds of Formula I include compounds of Formulas I and stereoisomers geometric isomers tautomers solvates metabolites and pharmaceutically acceptable salts and prodrugs thereof.

The present invention provides pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine compounds and pharmaceutical formulations thereof which are potentially useful in the treatment of diseases conditions and or disorders modulated by PI3 kinases. More specifically the present invention provides compounds of Formula I

Ris selected from H C Calkyl C O NRR NRC O R NRC O OR NRC O NRR and C Cheteroaryl where C Cheteroaryl is optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from C Calkyl C Calkyl NRR C Calkyl OR C Caryl F Cl Br I CN CF COH C O NRR NO NRR NHCOR OR S O NRR and S O R 

Ris selected from carbon linked C Cheterocyclyl and carbon linked C Cheteroaryl where carbon linked C Cheterocyclyl and carbon linked C Cheteroaryl are optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from C Calkyl C Caryl F Cl Br I CH CN CF CHOH COH CONH CON CH NO NH NHCH NHCOCH OH OCH SH NHC O NHCH and S O CH 

Ris selected from NRR NRC O R NR C Calkyl NRR NR C Calkyl OR NR C Calkyl C O NRR NR C Calkylene C Ccarbocyclyl NR C Calkylene C Cheterocyclyl NR C Calkylene C Caryl NR C Calkylene C Cheteroaryl OR O C Calkylene C Ccarbocyclyl O C Calkylene C Cheterocyclyl O C Calkylene C Caryl O C Calkylene C Cheteroaryl C Calkylene NRR C Calkylene C Ccarbocyclyl C Calkylene C Cheterocyclyl C Calkylene C Caryl C Calkylene C Cheteroaryl C Calkynylene NRR C Calkynylene C Ccarbocyclyl C Calkynylene C Cheterocyclyl C Calkynylene C Caryl C Calkynylene C Cheteroaryl C Calkylene C Carylene C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl C Calkylene C Cheterocyclyl C O NRR C Calkyl C Calkynyl C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl and C Cheteroaryl where alkyl alkylene alkynyl alkynylene carbocyclyl heterocyclyl aryl and heteroaryl are optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from F Cl Br I CH CHOH CN CF COH COCH CONH CONHCH CON CH NO NH NHCH NHCOCH NHS O CH OH OCH S O N CH SCH CHOCH and S O CH 

R Rand Rare independently selected from H C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl and C Cheteroaryl where alkyl alkenyl alkynyl carbocyclyl heterocyclyl aryl and heteroaryl are optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from F Cl Br I CHOH CHCH CN CF COH CONH CONHCH NO N CH NHCOCH NHS O CH OH OCH OCHCH S O NH SCH S O CH CHOCH CH and S O CH 

Ris selected from C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl and C Cheteroaryl where alkyl alkenyl alkynyl carbocyclyl heterocyclyl aryl and heteroaryl are optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from F Cl Br I CHOH CHCH CN CF COH CONH CONHCH NO N CH NHCOCH NHS O CH OH OCH OCHCH S O NH SCH S O CH OCHCH N CH and S O CH 

Exemplary embodiments include wherein Ris a monocyclic heteroaryl selected from pyridyl isoxazolyl imidazolyl pyrazolyl pyrrolyl thiazolyl pyridazinyl pyrimidinyl pyrazinyl oxazolyl oxadiazolyl furanyl thienyl triazolyl and tetrazolyl.

Exemplary embodiments include wherein Ris a fused bicyclic C Cheterocyclyl or C Cheteroaryl selected from

Exemplary embodiments include wherein Ris a fused bicyclic C Cheterocyclyl or C Cheteroaryl selected from 

Exemplary embodiments include wherein Ris a C Cheteroaryl substituted with one or more groups selected from F CF NH NHCH OH OCH C O CH NHC O CH N C O CH NHC O NH COH CHO CHOH C O NHCH C O NH and CH.

Exemplary embodiments include wherein Ris optionally substituted pyrimidin 5 yl optionally substituted C Caryl or optionally substituted phenyl.

Exemplary embodiments include wherein phenyl is substituted with one or more groups independently selected from OCH SOCH SONH NHSOCH CHOCH CN C O NH C O NHCH NHC O CH CF OH CH and Cl.

Exemplary embodiments include wherein Ris ORwhere Ris optionally substituted pyridyl or optionally substituted C Calkyl.

Exemplary embodiments include wherein Ris O C Calkylene C Cheterocyclyl O C Calkylene C Caryl or O C Calkylene C Cheteroaryl .

Exemplary embodiments include wherein Ris NRRwhere Ris H C Calkyl C Calkenyl or C Calkynyl and Ris optionally substituted phenyl indazol 6 yl or indazol 4 yl.

Exemplary embodiments include wherein Ris NRRwhere Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen atom to which they are attached form morpholinyl 4 methylpiperazin 1 yl 4 methylsulfonylpiperazin 1 yl or 4 2 pyridyl piperazin 1 yl.

The Formula I compounds of the invention may contain asymmetric or chiral centers and therefore exist in different stereoisomeric forms. It is intended that all stereoisomeric forms of the compounds of the invention including but not limited to diastereomers enantiomers and atropisomers as well as mixtures thereof such as racemic mixtures form part of the present invention.

In addition the present invention embraces all geometric and positional isomers. For example if a Formula I compound incorporates a double bond or a fused ring the cis and trans forms as well as mixtures thereof are embraced within the scope of the invention. Both the single positional isomers and mixture of positional isomers are also within the scope of the present invention.

In the structures shown herein where the stereochemistry of any particular chiral atom is not specified then all stereoisomers are contemplated and included as the compounds of the invention. Where stereochemistry is specified by a solid wedge or dashed line representing a particular configuration then that stereoisomer is so specified and defined.

The compounds of the present invention may exist in unsolvated as well as solvated forms with pharmaceutically acceptable solvents such as water ethanol and the like and it is intended that the invention embrace both solvated and unsolvated forms.

The compounds of the present invention may also exist in different tautomeric forms and all such forms are embraced within the scope of the invention. The term tautomer or tautomeric form refers to structural isomers of different energies which are interconvertible via a low energy barrier. For example proton tautomers also known as prototropic tautomers include interconversions via migration of a proton such as keto enol and imine enamine isomerizations. Valence tautomers include interconversions by reorganization of some of the bonding electrons.

The present invention also embraces isotopically labeled compounds of the present invention which are identical to those recited herein but for the fact that one or more atoms are replaced by an atom having an atomic mass or mass number different from the atomic mass or mass number usually found in nature. All isotopes of any particular atom or element as specified are contemplated within the scope of the compounds of the invention and their uses. Exemplary isotopes that can be incorporated into compounds of the invention include isotopes of hydrogen carbon nitrogen oxygen phosphorus sulfur fluorine chlorine and iodine such as H H C C C N N O O O P P S F Cl I and I. Certain isotopically labeled compounds of the present invention e.g. those labeled with H and C are useful in compound and or substrate tissue distribution assays. Tritiated H and carbon 14 C isotopes are useful for their ease of preparation and detectability. Further substitution with heavier isotopes such as deuterium i.e. H may afford certain therapeutic advantages resulting from greater metabolic stability e.g. increased in vivo half life or reduced dosage requirements and hence may be preferred in some circumstances. Positron emitting isotopes such as O N C and F are useful for positron emission tomography PET studies to examine substrate receptor occupancy. Isotopically labeled compounds of the present invention can generally be prepared by following procedures analogous to those disclosed in the Schemes and or in the Examples herein below by substituting an isotopically labeled reagent for a non isotopically labeled reagent.

Pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidines compounds of Formula I may be synthesized by synthetic routes that include processes analogous to those well known in the chemical arts particularly in light of the description contained herein. The starting materials are generally available from commercial sources such as Aldrich Chemicals Milwaukee Wis. or are readily prepared using methods well known to those skilled in the art e.g. prepared by methods generally described in Louis F. Fieser and Mary Fieser v. 1 23 Wiley N.Y. 1967 2006 ed. or 4 Aufl. ed. Springer Verlag Berlin including supplements also available via the Beilstein online database .

In certain embodiments compounds of Formula I may be readily prepared using well known procedures to prepare pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidines Southwick et al 1975 J. of Heterocyclic Chem. 12 6 1199 1205 Chern et al 2004 Bioorganic Med. Chem. Letters 14 10 2519 2525 Wu et al 2003 Organic Letters 5 20 3587 3590 Quintela et al 2003 Bioorganic Med. Chem. 11 6 863 868 Braendvang et al 2007 Tetrahedron Letters 48 17 3057 3059 Katiyar et al 2006 Synthetic Communications 36 20 2963 2973 Holla et al 2006 Bioorganic Medicinal Chemistry 14 6 2040 2047 Kim et al 2003 European Journal of Medicinal Chemistry 38 5 pp 525 532 Quintela et al 2001 European Journal of Medicinal Chemistry 36 4 pp 321 332 U.S. Pat. No. 4 001 230 U.S. Pat. No. 4 044 130 U.S. Pat. No. 6 921 763 U.S. Pat. No. 6 660 744 U.S. Pat. No. 7 217 710 US 2006 0128729 US 2007 0155716 WO 2005 117909 and other heterocycles which are described in Comprehensive Heterocyclic Chemistry II Editors Katritzky and Rees Elsevier 1997 e.g. Volume 3 Liebigs Annalen der Chemie 9 1910 16 1985 Helvetica Chimica Acta 41 1052 60 1958 Arzneimittel Forschung 40 12 1328 31 1990 .

Compounds of Formula I may be prepared singly or as compound libraries comprising at least 2 for example 5 to 1 000 compounds or 10 to 100 compounds. Libraries of compounds of Formula I may be prepared by a combinatorial split and mix approach or by multiple parallel syntheses using either solution phase or solid phase chemistry by procedures known to those skilled in the art. Thus according to a further aspect of the invention there is provided a compound library comprising at least 2 compounds or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof.

For illustrative purposes Schemes 1 3 show general methods for preparing Formula I compounds as well as key intermediates. For a more detailed description of the individual reaction steps see the Examples section below. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that other synthetic routes may be used to synthesize the inventive compounds. Although specific starting materials and reagents are depicted in the Schemes and discussed below other starting materials and reagents can be easily substituted to provide a variety of derivatives and or reaction conditions. In addition many of the compounds prepared by the methods described below can be further modified in light of this disclosure using conventional chemistry well known to those skilled in the art.

In preparing compounds of Formulas I protection of remote functionality e.g. primary or secondary amine of intermediates may be necessary. The need for such protection will vary depending on the nature of the remote functionality and the conditions of the preparation methods. Suitable amino protecting groups include acetyl trifluoroacetyl t butoxycarbonyl BOC benzyloxycarbonyl CBz and 9 fluorenylmethyleneoxycarbonyl Fmoc . The need for such protection is readily determined by one skilled in the art. For a general description of protecting groups and their use see T. W. Greene Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis John Wiley Sons New York 1991

Scheme 1 shows a general method for preparation of the dihalo pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidines intermediate 54 where Hal is independently F Cl Br or I starting from an ethoxylidene nitrile ester 51. Cyclization of 51a or 51b with an alkyl hydrazine of formula RNHNH such as methyl hydrazine yields compounds 52. Treatment of compounds 52 with urea at elevated temperatures yields compounds 53. Treatment of compounds 53 with a reagent POHal such as phosphoryl chloride yields compounds 54.

Scheme 2 shows treatment of compounds 55a or 55b with an alkyl hydrazine RNHNH such as methyl hydrazine yielding compounds 56. Hydrolysis of the nitrile group using either sulphuric acid or hydrogen peroxide and sodium hydroxide provides compounds 57. Treatment of compounds 57 with urea at elevated temperatures yields compounds 53. Treatment of compounds 53 with a reagent POHal such as phosphoryl chloride and a reagent PHal such as phosphorous pentachloride yields compounds 54.

Scheme 3 shows treatment of a compound 52 with an acylating reagent to form an amide 58 and introduce the Rsubstituent. Conversion of the ester 58 to primary amide 59 allows for cyclization to 60. Halogenation at the 4 and 6 position gives 4 6 dichloro pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 61.

In the methods of preparing the compounds of this invention it may be advantageous to separate reaction products from one another and or from starting materials. The desired products of each step or series of steps is separated and or purified hereinafter separated to the desired degree of homogeneity by the techniques common in the art. Typically such separations involve multiphase extraction crystallization from a solvent or solvent mixture distillation sublimation or chromatography. Chromatography can involve any number of methods including for example reverse phase and normal phase size exclusion ion exchange high medium and low pressure liquid chromatography methods and apparatus small scale analytical simulated moving bed SMB and preparative thin or thick layer chromatography as well as techniques of small scale thin layer and flash chromatography.

Another class of separation methods involves treatment of a mixture with a reagent selected to bind to or render otherwise separable a desired product unreacted starting material reaction by product or the like. Such reagents include adsorbents or absorbents such as activated carbon molecular sieves ion exchange media or the like. Alternatively the reagents can be acids in the case of a basic material bases in the case of an acidic material binding reagents such as antibodies binding proteins selective chelators such as crown ethers liquid liquid ion extraction reagents LIX or the like.

Selection of appropriate methods of separation depends on the nature of the materials involved. For example boiling point and molecular weight in distillation and sublimation presence or absence of polar functional groups in chromatography stability of materials in acidic and basic media in multiphase extraction and the like. One skilled in the art will apply techniques most likely to achieve the desired separation.

Diastereomeric mixtures can be separated into their individual diastereomers on the basis of their physical chemical differences by methods well known to those skilled in the art such as by chromatography and or fractional crystallization. Enantiomers can be separated by converting the enantiomeric mixture into a diastereomeric mixture by reaction with an appropriate optically active compound e.g. chiral auxiliary such as a chiral alcohol or Mosher s acid chloride separating the diastereomers and converting e.g. hydrolyzing the individual diastereoisomers to the corresponding pure enantiomers. Also some of the compounds of the present invention may be atropisomers e.g. substituted biaryls and are considered as part of this invention. Enantiomers can also be separated by use of a chiral HPLC column.

A single stereoisomer e.g. an enantiomer substantially free of its stereoisomer may be obtained by resolution of the racemic mixture using a method such as formation of diastereomers using optically active resolving agents Eliel E. and Wilen S. Stereochemistry of Organic Compounds John Wiley Sons Inc. New York 1994 Lochmuller C. H. 1975 J. Chromatogr. 113 3 283 302 . Racemic mixtures of chiral compounds of the invention can be separated and isolated by any suitable method including 1 formation of ionic diastereomeric salts with chiral compounds and separation by fractional crystallization or other methods 2 formation of diastereomeric compounds with chiral derivatizing reagents separation of the diastereomers and conversion to the pure stereoisomers and 3 separation of the substantially pure or enriched stereoisomers directly under chiral conditions. See Drug Stereochemistry Analytical Methods and Pharmacology Irving W. Wainer Ed. Marcel Dekker Inc. New York 1993 .

Under method 1 diastereomeric salts can be formed by reaction of enantiomerically pure chiral bases such as brucine quinine ephedrine strychnine methyl phenylethylamine amphetamine and the like with asymmetric compounds bearing acidic functionality such as carboxylic acid and sulfonic acid. The diastereomeric salts may be induced to separate by fractional crystallization or ionic chromatography. For separation of the optical isomers of amino compounds addition of chiral carboxylic or sulfonic acids such as camphorsulfonic acid tartaric acid mandelic acid or lactic acid can result in formation of the diastereomeric salts.

Alternatively by method 2 the substrate to be resolved is reacted with one enantiomer of a chiral compound to form a diastereomeric pair E. and Wilen S. Stereochemistry of Organic Compounds John Wiley Sons Inc. 1994 p. 322 . Diastereomeric compounds can be formed by reacting asymmetric compounds with enantiomerically pure chiral derivatizing reagents such as menthyl derivatives followed by separation of the diastereomers and hydrolysis to yield the pure or enriched enantiomer. A method of determining optical purity involves making chiral esters such as a menthyl ester e.g. menthyl chloroformate in the presence of base or Mosher ester methoxy trifluoromethyl phenyl acetate Jacob III. J. Org. Chem. 1982 47 4165 of the racemic mixture and analyzing the H NMR spectrum for the presence of the two atropisomeric enantiomers or diastereomers. Stable diastereomers of atropisomeric compounds can be separated and isolated by normal and reverse phase chromatography following methods for separation of atropisomeric naphthyl isoquinolines WO 96 15111 . By method 3 a racemic mixture of two enantiomers can be separated by chromatography using a chiral stationary phase Chiral Liquid Chromatography 1989 W. J. Lough Ed. Chapman and Hall New York Okamoto J. Chromatogr. 1990 513 375 378 . Enriched or purified enantiomers can be distinguished by methods used to distinguish other chiral molecules with asymmetric carbon atoms such as optical rotation and circular dichroism.

Determination of the activity of PI3 kinase activity of a compound of Formula I is possible by a number of direct and indirect detection methods. Certain exemplary compounds described herein were assayed for their PI3K binding activity Example 83 and in vitro activity against tumor cells Example 84 . The range of PI3K binding activities was less than 1 nM nanomolar to about 10 M micromolar . Certain exemplary compounds of the invention had PI3K binding activity ICvalues less than 10 nM. Certain compounds of the invention had tumor cell based activity ICvalues less than 100 nM.

The cytotoxic or cytostatic activity of Formula I exemplary compounds was measured by establishing a proliferating mammalian tumor cell line in a cell culture medium adding a Formula I compound culturing the cells for a period from about 6 hours to about 5 days and measuring cell viability Example 84 . Cell based in vitro assays were used to measure viability i.e. proliferation IC cytotoxicity EC and induction of apoptosis caspase activation .

The in vitro potency of Formula I exemplary compounds was measured by the cell proliferation assay CellTiter Glo Luminescent Cell Viability Assay commercially available from Promega Corp. Madison Wis. Example 84 . This homogeneous assay method is based on the recombinant expression of Coleoptera luciferase U.S. Pat. No. 5 583 024 U.S. Pat. No. 5 674 713 U.S. Pat. No. 5 700 670 and determines the number of viable cells in culture based on quantitation of the ATP present an indicator of metabolically active cells Crouch et al 1993 J. Immunol. Meth. 160 81 88 U.S. Pat. No. 6 602 677 . The CellTiter Glo Assay was conducted in 96 or 384 well format making it amenable to automated high throughput screening HTS Cree et al 1995 AntiCancer Drugs 6 398 404 . The homogeneous assay procedure involves adding the single reagent CellTiter Glo Reagent directly to cells cultured in serum supplemented medium. Cell washing removal of medium and multiple pipetting steps are not required. The system detects as few as 15 cells well in a 384 well format in 10 minutes after adding reagent and mixing.

The homogeneous add mix measure format results in cell lysis and generation of a luminescent signal proportional to the amount of ATP present. The amount of ATP is directly proportional to the number of cells present in culture. The CellTiter Glo Assay generates a glow type luminescent signal produced by the luciferase reaction which has a half life generally greater than five hours depending on cell type and medium used. Viable cells are reflected in relative luminescence units RLU . The substrate Beetle Luciferin is oxidatively decarboxylated by recombinant firefly luciferase with concomitant conversion of ATP to AMP and generation of photons. The extended half life eliminates the need to use reagent injectors and provides flexibility for continuous or batch mode processing of multiple plates. This cell proliferation assay an be used with various multiwell formats e.g. 96 or 384 well format. Data can be recorded by luminometer or CCD camera imaging device. The luminescence output is presented as relative light units RLU measured over time.

The anti proliferative effects of Formula I exemplary compounds were measured by the CellTiter Glo Assay Example 84 against several tumor cell lines including PC3 Detroit 562 and MDAMB361.1. ECvalues were established for the tested compounds. The range of in vitro cell potency activities was about 100 nM to about 10 M.

Certain ADME properties were measured for certain exemplary compounds by assays including Caco 2 Permeability Example 85 Hepatocyte Clearance Example 86 Cytochrome P450 Inhibition Example 87 Cytochrome P450 Induction Example 88 Plasma Protein Binding Example 89 and hERG channel blockage Example 90 .

Exemplary Formula I compounds No. 101 189 in Table 1 were made characterized and tested for PI3K activity according to the methods of this invention and have the following structures and corresponding names ChemDraw Ultra Version 9.0.1 CambridgeSoft Corp. Cambridge Mass. .

The compounds of the invention may be administered by any route appropriate to the condition to be treated. Suitable routes include oral parenteral including subcutaneous intramuscular intravenous intra arterial intradermal intrathecal and epidural transdermal rectal nasal topical including buccal and sublingual vaginal intraperitoneal intrapulmonary and intranasal. For local immunosuppressive treatment the compounds may be administered by intralesional administration including perfusing or otherwise contacting the graft with the inhibitor before transplantation. It will be appreciated that the preferred route may vary with for example the condition of the recipient. Where the compound is administered orally it may be formulated as a pill capsule tablet etc. with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient. Where the compound is administered parenterally it may be formulated with a pharmaceutically acceptable parenteral vehicle and in a unit dosage injectable form as detailed below.

A dose to treat human patients may range from about 10 mg to about 1000 mg of Formula I compound. A typical dose may be about 100 mg to about 300 mg of the compound. A dose may be administered once a day QID twice per day BID or more frequently depending on the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties including absorption distribution metabolism and excretion of the particular compound. In addition toxicity factors may influence the dosage and administration regimen. When administered orally the pill capsule or tablet may be ingested daily or less frequently for a specified period of time. The regimen may be repeated for a number of cycles of therapy.

Compounds of the present invention are useful for treating hyperproliferative diseases conditions and or disorders including but not limited to those characterized by over expression of lipid kinases e.g. PI3 kinase. Accordingly another aspect of this invention includes methods of treating or preventing diseases or conditions that can be treated or prevented by inhibiting lipid kinases including PI3. In one embodiment the method comprises administering to a mammal in need thereof a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I or a stereoisomer geometric isomer tautomer or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. In one embodiment a human patient is treated with a compound of Formula I and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier adjuvant or vehicle wherein said compound of Formula I is present in an amount to detectably inhibit PI3 kinase activity.

Cancers which can be treated according to the methods of this invention include but are not limited to breast ovary cervix prostate testis genitourinary tract esophagus larynx glioblastoma neuroblastoma stomach skin keratoacanthoma lung epidermoid carcinoma large cell carcinoma non small cell lung carcinoma NSCLC small cell carcinoma lung adenocarcinoma bone colon adenoma pancreas adenocarcinoma thyroid follicular carcinoma undifferentiated carcinoma papillary carcinoma seminoma melanoma sarcoma bladder carcinoma liver carcinoma and biliary passages kidney carcinoma myeloid disorders lymphoid disorders hairy cells buccal cavity and pharynx oral lip tongue mouth pharynx small intestine colon rectum large intestine rectum brain and central nervous system Hodgkin s and leukemia.

Another aspect of this invention provides a compound of this invention for use in the treatment of the diseases or conditions described herein in a mammal for example a human suffering from such disease or condition. Also provided is the use of a compound of this invention in the preparation of a medicament for the treatment of the diseases and conditions described herein in a warm blooded animal such as a mammal for example a human suffering from such disorder.

In order to use a compound of this invention for the therapeutic treatment including prophylactic treatment of mammals including humans it is normally formulated in accordance with standard pharmaceutical practice as a pharmaceutical composition. According to this aspect of the invention there is provided a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of this invention in association with a pharmaceutically acceptable diluent or carrier.

A typical formulation is prepared by mixing a compound of the present invention and a carrier diluent or excipient. Suitable carriers diluents and excipients are well known to those skilled in the art and include materials such as carbohydrates waxes water soluble and or swellable polymers hydrophilic or hydrophobic materials gelatin oils solvents water and the like. The particular carrier diluent or excipient used will depend upon the means and purpose for which the compound of the present invention is being applied. Solvents are generally selected based on solvents recognized by persons skilled in the art as safe GRAS to be administered to a mammal. In general safe solvents are non toxic aqueous solvents such as water and other non toxic solvents that are soluble or miscible in water. Suitable aqueous solvents include water ethanol propylene glycol polyethylene glycols e.g. PEG 400 PEG 300 etc. and mixtures thereof. The formulations may also include one or more buffers stabilizing agents surfactants wetting agents lubricating agents emulsifiers suspending agents preservatives antioxidants opaquing agents glidants processing aids colorants sweeteners perfuming agents flavoring agents and other known additives to provide an elegant presentation of the drug i.e. a compound of the present invention or pharmaceutical composition thereof or aid in the manufacturing of the pharmaceutical product i.e. medicament .

The formulations may be prepared using conventional dissolution and mixing procedures. For example the bulk drug substance i.e. compound of the present invention or stabilized form of the compound e.g. complex with a cyclodextrin derivative or other known complexation agent is dissolved in a suitable solvent in the presence of one or more of the excipients described above. The compound of the present invention is typically formulated into pharmaceutical dosage forms to provide an easily controllable dosage of the drug and to enable patient compliance with the prescribed regimen.

The pharmaceutical composition or formulation for application may be packaged in a variety of ways depending upon the method used for administering the drug. Generally an article for distribution includes a container having deposited therein the pharmaceutical formulation in an appropriate form. Suitable containers are well known to those skilled in the art and include materials such as bottles plastic and glass sachets ampoules plastic bags metal cylinders and the like. The container may also include a tamper proof assemblage to prevent indiscreet access to the contents of the package. In addition the container has deposited thereon a label that describes the contents of the container. The label may also include appropriate warnings.

Pharmaceutical formulations of the compounds of the present invention may be prepared for various routes and types of administration. For example a compound of Formula I having the desired degree of purity may optionally be mixed with pharmaceutically acceptable diluents carriers excipients or stabilizers Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 1980 16th edition Osol A. Ed. in the form of a lyophilized formulation milled powder or an aqueous solution. Formulation may be conducted by mixing at ambient temperature at the appropriate pH and at the desired degree of purity with physiologically acceptable carriers i.e. carriers that are non toxic to recipients at the dosages and concentrations employed. The pH of the formulation depends mainly on the particular use and the concentration of compound but may range from about 3 to about 8. Formulation in an acetate buffer at pH 5 is a suitable embodiment.

The compound of this invention for use herein is preferably sterile. In particular formulations to be used for in vivo administration must be sterile. Such sterilization is readily accomplished by filtration through sterile filtration membranes.

The compound ordinarily can be stored as a solid composition a lyophilized formulation or as an aqueous solution.

The pharmaceutical compositions of the invention will be formulated dosed and administered in a fashion i.e. amounts concentrations schedules course vehicles and route of administration consistent with good medical practice. Factors for consideration in this context include the particular disorder being treated the particular mammal being treated the clinical condition of the individual patient the cause of the disorder the site of delivery of the agent the method of administration the scheduling of administration and other factors known to medical practitioners. The therapeutically effective amount of the compound to be administered will be governed by such considerations and is the minimum amount necessary to prevent ameliorate or treat the coagulation factor mediated disorder. Such amount is preferably below the amount that is toxic to the host or renders the host significantly more susceptible to bleeding.

As a general proposition the initial pharmaceutically effective amount of the inhibitor administered parenterally per dose will be in the range of about 0.01 100 mg kg namely about 0.1 to 20 mg kg of patient body weight per day with the typical initial range of compound used being 0.3 to 15 mg kg day.

Acceptable diluents carriers excipients and stabilizers are nontoxic to recipients at the dosages and concentrations employed and include buffers such as phosphate citrate and other organic acids antioxidants including ascorbic acid and methionine preservatives such as octadecyldimethylbenzyl ammonium chloride hexamethonium chloride benzalkonium chloride benzethonium chloride phenol butyl or benzyl alcohol alkyl parabens such as methyl or propyl paraben catechol resorcinol cyclohexanol 3 pentanol and m cresol low molecular weight less than about 10 residues polypeptides proteins such as serum albumin gelatin or immunoglobulins hydrophilic polymers such as polyvinylpyrrolidone amino acids such as glycine glutamine asparagine histidine arginine or lysine monosaccharides disaccharides and other carbohydrates including glucose mannose or dextrins chelating agents such as EDTA sugars such as sucrose mannitol trehalose or sorbitol salt forming counter ions such as sodium metal complexes e.g. Zn protein complexes and or non ionic surfactants such as TWEEN PLURONICS or polyethylene glycol PEG . The active pharmaceutical ingredients may also be entrapped in microcapsules prepared for example by coacervation techniques or by interfacial polymerization for example hydroxymethylcellulose or gelatin microcapsules and poly methylmethacylate microcapsules respectively in colloidal drug delivery systems for example liposomes albumin microspheres microemulsions nano particles and nanocapsules or in macroemulsions. Such techniques are disclosed in Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 16th edition Osol A. Ed. 1980 .

Sustained release preparations of compounds of Formula I may be prepared. Suitable examples of sustained release preparations include semipermeable matrices of solid hydrophobic polymers containing a compound of Formula I which matrices are in the form of shaped articles e.g. films or microcapsules. Examples of sustained release matrices include polyesters hydrogels for example poly 2 hydroxyethyl methacrylate or poly vinyl alcohol polylactides U.S. Pat. No. 3 773 919 copolymers of L glutamic acid and gamma ethyl L glutamate non degradable ethylene vinyl acetate degradable lactic acid glycolic acid copolymers such as the LUPRON DEPOT injectable microspheres composed of lactic acid glycolic acid copolymer and leuprolide acetate and poly D 3 hydroxybutyric acid.

The formulations include those suitable for the administration routes detailed herein. The formulations may conveniently be presented in unit dosage form and may be prepared by any of the methods well known in the art of pharmacy. Techniques and formulations generally are found in Mack Publishing Co. Easton Pa. . Such methods include the step of bringing into association the active ingredient with the carrier which constitutes one or more accessory ingredients. In general the formulations are prepared by uniformly and intimately bringing into association the active ingredient with liquid carriers or finely divided solid carriers or both and then if necessary shaping the product.

Formulations of a compound of Formula I suitable for oral administration may be prepared as discrete units such as pills capsules cachets or tablets each containing a predetermined amount of a compound of Formula I.

Compressed tablets may be prepared by compressing in a suitable machine the active ingredient in a free flowing form such as a powder or granules optionally mixed with a binder lubricant inert diluent preservative surface active or dispersing agent. Molded tablets may be made by molding in a suitable machine a mixture of the powdered active ingredient moistened with an inert liquid diluent. The tablets may optionally be coated or scored and optionally are formulated so as to provide slow or controlled release of the active ingredient therefrom.

Tablets troches lozenges aqueous or oil suspensions dispersible powders or granules emulsions hard or soft capsules e.g. gelatin capsules syrups or elixirs may be prepared for oral use. Formulations of compounds of Formula I intended for oral use may be prepared according to any method known to the art for the manufacture of pharmaceutical compositions and such compositions may contain one or more agents including sweetening agents flavoring agents coloring agents and preserving agents in order to provide a palatable preparation. Tablets containing the active ingredient in admixture with non toxic pharmaceutically acceptable excipient which are suitable for manufacture of tablets are acceptable. These excipients may be for example inert diluents such as calcium or sodium carbonate lactose calcium or sodium phosphate granulating and disintegrating agents such as maize starch or alginic acid binding agents such as starch gelatin or acacia and lubricating agents such as magnesium stearate stearic acid or talc. Tablets may be uncoated or may be coated by known techniques including microencapsulation to delay disintegration and adsorption in the gastrointestinal tract and thereby provide a sustained action over a longer period. For example a time delay material such as glyceryl monostearate or glyceryl distearate alone or with a wax may be employed.

For treatment of the eye or other external tissues e.g. mouth and skin the formulations are preferably applied as a topical ointment or cream containing the active ingredient s in an amount of for example 0.075 to 20 w w. When formulated in an ointment the active ingredients may be employed with either a paraffinic or a water miscible ointment base. Alternatively the active ingredients may be formulated in a cream with an oil in water cream base.

If desired the aqueous phase of the cream base may include a polyhydric alcohol i.e. an alcohol having two or more hydroxyl groups such as propylene glycol butane 1 3 diol mannitol sorbitol glycerol and polyethylene glycol including PEG 400 and mixtures thereof. The topical formulations may desirably include a compound which enhances absorption or penetration of the active ingredient through the skin or other affected areas. Examples of such dermal penetration enhancers include dimethyl sulfoxide and related analogs.

The oily phase of the emulsions of this invention may be constituted from known ingredients in a known manner. While the phase may comprise merely an emulsifier it desirably comprises a mixture of at least one emulsifier with a fat or an oil or with both a fat and an oil. Preferably a hydrophilic emulsifier is included together with a lipophilic emulsifier which acts as a stabilizer. It is also preferred to include both an oil and a fat. Together the emulsifier s with or without stabilizer s make up the so called emulsifying wax and the wax together with the oil and fat make up the so called emulsifying ointment base which forms the oily dispersed phase of the cream formulations. Emulsifiers and emulsion stabilizers suitable for use in the formulation of the invention include Tween 60 Span 80 cetostearyl alcohol benzyl alcohol myristyl alcohol glyceryl mono stearate and sodium lauryl sulfate.

Aqueous suspensions of Formula I compounds contain the active materials in admixture with excipients suitable for the manufacture of aqueous suspensions. Such excipients include a suspending agent such as sodium carboxymethylcellulose croscarmellose povidone methylcellulose hydroxypropyl methylcellulose sodium alginate polyvinylpyrrolidone gum tragacanth and gum acacia and dispersing or wetting agents such as a naturally occurring phosphatide e.g. lecithin a condensation product of an alkylene oxide with a fatty acid e.g. polyoxyethylene stearate a condensation product of ethylene oxide with a long chain aliphatic alcohol e.g. heptadecaethyleneoxycetanol a condensation product of ethylene oxide with a partial ester derived from a fatty acid and a hexitol anhydride e.g. polyoxyethylene sorbitan monooleate . The aqueous suspension may also contain one or more preservatives such as ethyl or n propyl p hydroxybenzoate one or more coloring agents one or more flavoring agents and one or more sweetening agents such as sucrose or saccharin.

The pharmaceutical compositions of compounds of Formula I may be in the form of a sterile injectable preparation such as a sterile injectable aqueous or oleaginous suspension. This suspension may be formulated according to the known art using those suitable dispersing or wetting agents and suspending agents which have been mentioned above. The sterile injectable preparation may also be a sterile injectable solution or suspension in a non toxic parenterally acceptable diluent or solvent such as a solution in 1 3 butanediol or prepared as a lyophilized powder. Among the acceptable vehicles and solvents that may be employed are water Ringer s solution and isotonic sodium chloride solution. In addition sterile fixed oils may conventionally be employed as a solvent or suspending medium. For this purpose any bland fixed oil may be employed including synthetic mono or diglycerides. In addition fatty acids such as oleic acid may likewise be used in the preparation of injectables.

The amount of active ingredient that may be combined with the carrier material to produce a single dosage form will vary depending upon the host treated and the particular mode of administration. For example a time release formulation intended for oral administration to humans may contain approximately 1 to 1000 mg of active material compounded with an appropriate and convenient amount of carrier material which may vary from about 5 to about 95 of the total compositions weight weight . The pharmaceutical composition can be prepared to provide easily measurable amounts for administration. For example an aqueous solution intended for intravenous infusion may contain from about 3 to 500 g of the active ingredient per milliliter of solution in order that infusion of a suitable volume at a rate of about 30 mL hr can occur.

Formulations suitable for parenteral administration include aqueous and non aqueous sterile injection solutions which may contain anti oxidants buffers bacteriostats and solutes which render the formulation isotonic with the blood of the intended recipient and aqueous and non aqueous sterile suspensions which may include suspending agents and thickening agents.

Formulations suitable for topical administration to the eye also include eye drops wherein the active ingredient is dissolved or suspended in a suitable carrier especially an aqueous solvent for the active ingredient. The active ingredient is preferably present in such formulations in a concentration of about 0.5 to 20 w w for example about 0.5 to 10 w w for example about 1.5 w w.

Formulations suitable for topical administration in the mouth include lozenges comprising the active ingredient in a flavored basis usually sucrose and acacia or tragacanth pastilles comprising the active ingredient in an inert basis such as gelatin and glycerin or sucrose and acacia and mouthwashes comprising the active ingredient in a suitable liquid carrier.

Formulations for rectal administration may be presented as a suppository with a suitable base comprising for example cocoa butter or a salicylate.

Formulations suitable for intrapulmonary or nasal administration have a particle size for example in the range of 0.1 to 500 microns including particle sizes in a range between 0.1 and 500 microns in increments microns such as 0.5 1 30 microns 35 microns etc. which is administered by rapid inhalation through the nasal passage or by inhalation through the mouth so as to reach the alveolar sacs. Suitable formulations include aqueous or oily solutions of the active ingredient. Formulations suitable for aerosol or dry powder administration may be prepared according to conventional methods and may be delivered with other therapeutic agents such as compounds heretofore used in the treatment or prophylaxis disorders as described below.

Formulations suitable for vaginal administration may be presented as pessaries tampons creams gels pastes foams or spray formulations containing in addition to the active ingredient such carriers as are known in the art to be appropriate.

The formulations may be packaged in unit dose or multi dose containers for example sealed ampoules and vials and may be stored in a freeze dried lyophilized condition requiring only the addition of the sterile liquid carrier for example water for injection immediately prior to use. Extemporaneous injection solutions and suspensions are prepared from sterile powders granules and tablets of the kind previously described. Preferred unit dosage formulations are those containing a daily dose or unit daily sub dose as herein above recited or an appropriate fraction thereof of the active ingredient.

The invention further provides veterinary compositions comprising at least one active ingredient as above defined together with a veterinary carrier therefore. Veterinary carriers are materials useful for the purpose of administering the composition and may be solid liquid or gaseous materials which are otherwise inert or acceptable in the veterinary art and are compatible with the active ingredient. These veterinary compositions may be administered parenterally orally or by any other desired route.

The compounds of Formula I may be employed alone or in combination with other therapeutic agents for the treatment of a disease or disorder described herein such as a hyperproliferative disorder e.g. cancer . In certain embodiments a compound of Formula I is combined in a pharmaceutical combination formulation or dosing regimen as combination therapy with a second compound that has anti hyperproliferative properties or that is useful for treating a hyperproliferative disorder e.g. cancer . The second compound of the pharmaceutical combination formulation or dosing regimen preferably has complementary activities to the compound of Formula I such that they do not adversely affect each other. Such compounds are suitably present in combination in amounts that are effective for the purpose intended. In one embodiment a composition of this invention comprises a compound of Formula I or a stereoisomer geometric isomer tautomer solvate metabolite or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof in combination with a chemotherapeutic agent such as described herein.

The combination therapy may be administered as a simultaneous or sequential regimen. When administered sequentially the combination may be administered in two or more administrations. The combined administration includes coadministration using separate formulations or a single pharmaceutical formulation and consecutive administration in either order wherein preferably there is a time period while both or all active agents simultaneously exert their biological activities.

Suitable dosages for any of the above coadministered agents are those presently used and may be lowered due to the combined action synergy of the newly identified agent and other chemotherapeutic agents or treatments.

The combination therapy may provide synergy and prove synergistic i.e. the effect achieved when the active ingredients used together is greater than the sum of the effects that results from using the compounds separately. A synergistic effect may be attained when the active ingredients are 1 co formulated and administered or delivered simultaneously in a combined unit dosage formulation 2 delivered by alternation or in parallel as separate formulations or 3 by some other regimen. When delivered in alternation therapy a synergistic effect may be attained when the compounds are administered or delivered sequentially e.g. by different injections in separate syringes separate pills or capsules or separate infusions. In general during alternation therapy an effective dosage of each active ingredient is administered sequentially i.e. serially whereas in combination therapy effective dosages of two or more active ingredients are administered together.

In a particular embodiment of anti cancer therapy a compound of Formula I or a stereoisomer geometric isomer tautomer solvate metabolite or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof may be combined with other chemotherapeutic hormonal or antibody agents such as those described herein as well as combined with surgical therapy and radiotherapy. Combination therapies according to the present invention thus comprise the administration of at least one compound of Formula I or a stereoisomer geometric isomer tautomer solvate metabolite or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof and the use of at least one other cancer treatment method. The amounts of the compound s of Formula I and the other pharmaceutically active chemotherapeutic agent s and the relative timings of administration will be selected in order to achieve the desired combined therapeutic effect.

Also falling within the scope of this invention are the in vivo metabolic products of Formula I described herein. Such products may result for example from the oxidation reduction hydrolysis amidation deamidation esterification deesterification enzymatic cleavage and the like of the administered compound. Accordingly the invention includes metabolites of compounds of Formula I including compounds produced by a process comprising contacting a compound of this invention with a mammal for a period of time sufficient to yield a metabolic product thereof.

Metabolite products typically are identified by preparing a radiolabelled e.g. C or H isotope of a compound of the invention administering it parenterally in a detectable dose e.g. greater than about 0.5 mg kg to an animal such as rat mouse guinea pig monkey or to man allowing sufficient time for metabolism to occur typically about 30 seconds to 30 hours and isolating its conversion products from the urine blood or other biological samples. These products are easily isolated since they are labeled others are isolated by the use of antibodies capable of binding epitopes surviving in the metabolite . The metabolite structures are determined in conventional fashion e.g. by MS LC MS or NMR analysis. In general analysis of metabolites is done in the same way as conventional drug metabolism studies well known to those skilled in the art. The metabolite products so long as they are not otherwise found in vivo are useful in diagnostic assays for therapeutic dosing of the compounds of the invention.

In another embodiment of the invention an article of manufacture or kit containing materials useful for the treatment of the diseases and disorders described above is provided. In one embodiment the kit comprises a container comprising a compound of Formula I or a stereoisomer geometric isomer tautomer solvate metabolite or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof. The kit may further comprise a label or package insert on or associated with the container. The term package insert is used to refer to instructions customarily included in commercial packages of therapeutic products that contain information about the indications usage dosage administration contraindications and or warnings concerning the use of such therapeutic products. Suitable containers include for example bottles vials syringes blister pack etc. The container may be formed from a variety of materials such as glass or plastic. The container may hold a compound of Formula I or a formulation thereof which is effective for treating the condition and may have a sterile access port for example the container may be an intravenous solution bag or a vial having a stopper pierceable by a hypodermic injection needle . At least one active agent in the composition is a compound of Formula I. The label or package insert indicates that the composition is used for treating the condition of choice such as cancer. In addition the label or package insert may indicate that the patient to be treated is one having a disorder such as a hyperproliferative disorder neurodegeneration cardiac hypertrophy pain migraine or a neurotraumatic disease or event. In one embodiment the label or package inserts indicates that the composition comprising a compound of Formula I can be used to treat a disorder resulting from abnormal cell growth. The label or package insert may also indicate that the composition can be used to treat other disorders. Alternatively or additionally the article of manufacture may further comprise a second container comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable buffer such as bacteriostatic water for injection BWFI phosphate buffered saline Ringer s solution and dextrose solution. It may further include other materials desirable from a commercial and user standpoint including other buffers diluents filters needles and syringes.

The kit may further comprise directions for the administration of the compound of Formula I and if present the second pharmaceutical formulation. For example if the kit comprises a first composition comprising a compound of Formula I and a second pharmaceutical formulation the kit may further comprise directions for the simultaneous sequential or separate administration of the first and second pharmaceutical compositions to a patient in need thereof.

In another embodiment the kits are suitable for the delivery of solid oral forms of a compound of Formula I such as tablets or capsules. Such a kit preferably includes a number of unit dosages. Such kits can include a card having the dosages oriented in the order of their intended use. An example of such a kit is a blister pack . Blister packs are well known in the packaging industry and are widely used for packaging pharmaceutical unit dosage forms. If desired a memory aid can be provided for example in the form of numbers letters or other markings or with a calendar insert designating the days in the treatment schedule in which the dosages can be administered.

According to one embodiment a kit may comprise a a first container with a compound of Formula I contained therein and optionally b a second container with a second pharmaceutical formulation contained therein wherein the second pharmaceutical formulation comprises a second compound with anti hyperproliferative activity. Alternatively or additionally the kit may further comprise a third container comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable buffer such as bacteriostatic water for injection BWFI phosphate buffered saline Ringer s solution and dextrose solution. It may further include other materials desirable from a commercial and user standpoint including other buffers diluents filters needles and syringes.

In certain other embodiments wherein the kit comprises a composition of Formula I and a second therapeutic agent the kit may comprise a container for containing the separate compositions such as a divided bottle or a divided foil packet however the separate compositions may also be contained within a single undivided container. Typically the kit comprises directions for the administration of the separate components. The kit form is particularly advantageous when the separate components are preferably administered in different dosage forms e.g. oral and parenteral are administered at different dosage intervals or when titration of the individual components of the combination is desired by the prescribing physician.

The Suzuki type coupling reaction is useful to attach a monocyclic heteroaryl a fused bicyclic heterocycle a fused bicyclic heteroaryl or a phenyl at the 6 position of the pyrimidine ring of a 6 chloro 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 21 see Scheme 4 . For example 21 may be combined with 1.5 equivalents of 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1H indazole 24 and dissolved in 3 equivalents of sodium carbonate as a 1 molar solution in water and an equal volume of acetonitrile. A catalytic amount or more of a low valent palladium reagent such as bis triphenylphosphine palladium II dichloride is added. A variety of boronic acids or boronic esters can be used in place of the indazole boronic ester indicated. Also alternatively the nitrogen of the indazole may be protected for example N THP protected compound 41. In some cases potassium acetate was used in place of sodium carbonate to adjust the pH of the aqueous layer. The reaction is then heated to about 140 150 C. under pressure in a microwave reactor such as the Biotage Optimizer Biotage Inc. for 10 to 30 minutes. The contents are extracted with ethyl acetate or another organic solvent. After evaporation of the organic layer the Suzuki coupling products 1 3 4 substituted 6 1H indazol 4 yl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 22 or 1 3 4 substituted 5 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidin 6 yl pyrimidin 2 amine 23 may be purified on silica or by reverse phase HPLC. Substituents R R R may be R R Ras defined or protected forms or precursors thereof.

Boronic ester or acid 1.5 eq 24 or 25 and a palladium catalyst such as bis triphenylphosphine palladium II chloride 0.05 eq is added to a mixture of chloro intermediate 1 eq 21 in acetonitrile and 1 M of sodium carbonate aqueous solution equal volume as acetonitrile . The reaction mixture is heated to 150 C. in a microwave for 15 min. LC MS indicates when the reaction is complete. Water is added to the mixture and the precipitated product is filtered and purified by HPLC to yield the product 22 or 23. Substituents R R R may be R R Ras defined or protected forms or precursors thereof.

A variety of palladium catalysts can be used during the Suzuki coupling step to form compounds including exemplary embodiments 22 and 23. Suzuki coupling is a palladium mediated cross coupling reaction of an arylhalide such as 21 with a boronic acid such as 24 or 25. Low valent Pd II and Pd 0 catalysts may be used in the Suzuki coupling reaction including PdCl2 PPH Pd t Bu PdCldppf CHCl Pd PPH Pd OAc PPH ClPd Pet Pd DIPHOS ClPd Bipy PdCl PHPCHPPH ClPd P o tol Pd dba P o tol Pd dba P furyl ClPd P furyl ClPd PMePH ClPd P 4 F Ph ClPd P CF ClPd P 2 COOH Ph Ph ClPd P 4 COOH Ph Ph and encapsulated catalysts Pd EnCat 30 Pd EnCat TPP30 and Pd II EnCat BINAP30 US 2004 0254066 .

To a 4 6 dichloro pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine intermediate 27 in a solvent such as ethanol is added a primary or secondary amine RRNH 1.1 equiv. and a non nucleophilic base such as triethylamine NEt 1.5 eq 63 l . Alternatively acetonitrile may be used as the solvent and potassium carbonate may be used as the base. The reaction mixture is stirred at room temperature for about 1 hour or overnight volatiles removed in vacuo and residue partitioned between DCM and brine. If the mixture is insoluble it may be sonicated and the solid product was collected by filtration. Drying with magnesium sulphate and evaporation of the solvent gives N 6 chloro pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl amine substituted intermediate 28 often as a crystalline solid or by trituration. Substituents R and R may be Rand Ras defined or protected forms or precursors thereof.

4 6 Dichloropyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine intermediate 27 is added to a stirring cold 0 C. solution of an alcohol ROH 1.1 equiv. and sodium hydride e.g. 60 wt suspension in mineral oil 1.4 equiv. in dry THF. The reaction mixture is warmed to room temperature overnight and then quenched with water. Subsequent DCM brine extraction and purification by column chromatography gives 6 chloro pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl alcohol substituted intermediate 30. Substituents R and R may be Rand Ras defined or protected forms or precursors thereof.

4 6 Dichloro pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine intermediate 27 and an aryl boronic acid or pinacol ester 1 eq are suspended in acetonitrile and sodium carbonate 3 eq 80 mg in solution with water. Bis triphenylphosphine palladium II chloride 0.05 eq is added. The reaction mixture is heated in microwave at about 80 C. for about 5 min. Water is added to the mixture and the precipitated product is filtered and purified by column chromatography to yield the 4 aryl 6 chloro pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine product 31. Substituents R and R may be Rand Ras defined or protected forms or precursors thereof.

A 1 4 6 substituted 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 3 carboxylic acid 32 is treated with 1.5 eq HATU 3 eq of an alkylamine RRNH and 3 eq of diisopropylethylamine DIPEA in dimethylformamide DMF to approximately 0.1 M concentration. The reaction is stirred until complete and extracted in ethylacetate with saturated bicarbonate solution. The organic layer is dried filtered and concentrated to yield the crude intermediate. This intermediate is purified via reverse phase HPLC to yield product 33 where HPLC Ris C O NRR. Substituents R R R may be R R Ras defined or protected forms or precursors thereof.

The chemical reactions described in the Examples may be readily adapted to prepare a number of other PI3K inhibitors of the invention and alternative methods for preparing the compounds of this invention are deemed to be within the scope of this invention. For example the synthesis of non exemplified compounds according to the invention may be successfully performed by modifications apparent to those skilled in the art e.g. by appropriately protecting interfering groups by utilizing other suitable reagents known in the art other than those described and or by making routine modifications of reaction conditions. Alternatively other reactions disclosed herein or known in the art will be recognized as having applicability for preparing other compounds of the invention.

In the Examples described below unless otherwise indicated all temperatures are set forth in degrees Celsius. Reagents were purchased from commercial suppliers such as Sigma Aldrich Chemical Company Lancaster TCI or Maybridge and were used without further purification unless otherwise indicated. The reactions set forth below were done generally under a positive pressure of nitrogen or argon or with a drying tube unless otherwise stated in anhydrous solvents and the reaction flasks were typically fitted with rubber septa for the introduction of substrates and reagents via syringe. Glassware was oven dried and or heat dried. Column chromatography was conducted on a Biotage system Manufacturer Dyax Corporation having a silica gel column or on a silica SEP PAK cartridge Waters . H NMR spectra were obtained at 400 MHz in deuterated CDCl d DMSO CHOD or d acetone solutions reported in ppm using chloroform as the reference standard 7.25 ppm . When peak multiplicities are reported the following abbreviations are used s singlet d doublet t triplet m multiplet br broadened dd doublet of doublets dt doublet of triplets . Coupling constants when given are reported in Hertz Hz .

Ethoxymethylidenemalonitrile 1 26.5 g 0.217 mol was added portion wise to a mixture of N methylhydrazine 10 g 0.217 mol in ethanol with a speed that the mixture was heated to boiling. The mixture was then refluxed for 1 h and cooled down to room temperature. The precipitated product was filtered and washed with ethanol to yield the pure 5 amino 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 4 carbonitrile 2 13 g 50 .

A mixture of 5 amino 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 4 carbonitrile 2 13 g 0.11 mol in conc. sulfuric acid 30 mL 0.6 mol was stirred for 1 h at room temperature. The mixture was poured on ice and the resulting mixture was basified to pH 8 with 50 ammonia hydroxide aqueous solution in the ice bath. The precipitated product was filtered and washed with water to give 5 amino 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 4 carboxylic acid amide 3 13.5 g 91 .

Alternatively a mixture of 5 amino 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 4 carbonitrile 2 3.00 g 24.59 mmol 1M aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide 1.1 equiv. 27 ml and 30 aqueous solution of hydrogen peroxide 5 equiv. 14 ml were stirred in methanol 30 ml at room temperature overnight. The volume of reaction mixture was reduced in vacuo precipitate filtered and dried to give 5 amino 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 4 carboxylic acid amide 3 2.99 g 87 .

A mixture of 5 amino 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 4 carboxylic acid amide 3 13.5 g 0.096 mol and urea 28.9 g 0.482 mol was heated to 180 C. for 2 h. The reaction was cooled down and the solid was dissolved in hot KOH aq 50 about 400 mL . The resulting mixture was neutralized with acetic acid. The precipitated product was filtered and washed with water to yield 1 methyl 1 7 dihydro pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 4 6 dione 4 13.5 g 84 .

Alternatively a mixture of 5 amino 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 4 carboxylic acid amide 3 700 mg 5.00 mmol and oxalyl chloride 1.2 equiv. 0.5 ml in dry toluene 20 ml was refluxed overnight. The reaction mixture was cooled down precipitate filtered washed with diethyl ether and dried to give 1 methyl 1 7 dihydro pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 4 6 dione 4 765 mg 92 .

Phosphorus pentachloride 15 g 0.072 mol was added to a mixture of 1 methyl 1 7 dihydro pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 4 6 dione 4 6 g 0.04 mol in phosphorus oxychloride 10 ml 0.12 mol . The reaction mixture was heated to reflux for 18 h. Excess of phosphorus oxychloride was distilled off under reduced pressure. The residue was poured on ice. The resulting mixture was extracted with DCM 3 . The combined organic layers were washed with water dried over MgSOand evaporated to yield 4 6 dichloro 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 5 4.7 g 64 .

2 1 Ethoxy ethylidene malononitrile 1a 10 g 73.45 mmol was added portionwise to a mixture of N methylhydrazine 1 equiv. 3.88 ml in ethanol 50 ml and the reaction mixture was refluxed for 1 hour cooled to room temperature precipitate filtered washed with ethanol and dried to give 5 amino 1 3 dimethyl 1H pyrazole 4 carbonitrile 2a as white crystalline solid 9.85 g 68 .

A mixture of 5 amino 1 3 dimethyl 1H pyrazolo 4 carbonitrile 2a 3.08 g 22.63 mmol 1M aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide 1.1 equiv. 55 ml and approximately 30 aqueous solution of hydrogen peroxide 5 eq 14 ml were stirred in methanol 30 ml at room temperature for 3 hours. The volume of reaction mixture was reduced in vacuo precipitate filtered and dried to give 5 amino 1 3 dimethyl 1H pyrazolo 4 carboxylic acid amide 3a 3.34 g 95 .

A mixture of 5 amino 1 3 dimethyl 1H pyrazolo 4 carboxylic acid amide 3a 3.33 g 21.61 mmol and urea 6.5 g 5 equiv. was heated to 180 C. for 4 h. The reaction was cooled down and the solid was dissolved in hot KOH aq 50 200 mL . The resulting mixture was neutralized with 2M hydrochloric acid. The precipitated product was filtered and washed with water to yield 1 3 dimethyl 1 7 dihydro pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 4 6 dione 4a 3.06 g .

Phosphorus pentachloride 3.47 g 3 equiv. was added to a mixture of 1 3 dimethyl 1 7 dihydro pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 4 6 dione 4a 1 g 5.56 mmol in phosphorus oxychloride 20 ml . The reaction mixture was heated to reflux for 18 h. Excess of phosphorus oxychloride was distilled off under reduced pressure. The residue was poured on ice. Extraction into DCM 3 and purification by column chromatography gave 4 6 dichloro 1 3 dimethyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 5a 680 mg 63 as a beige solid.

Ethoxy methylidenemalononitrile 1b 1.73 g 14.17 mmol was added portionwise to a mixture of N ethylhydrazine oxalate 1 equiv. 2.13 ml and triethylamine 2.1 equiv. 4.17 ml in ethanol 20 ml and the reaction mixture was refluxed for 1 hour cooled to room temperature precipitate filtered washed with ethanol and dried to give 5 amino 1 ethyl 1H pyrazole 4 carbonitrile 2b as white crystalline solid 1.02 g 53 .

A mixture of 5 amino 1 ethyl 1H pyrazolo 4 carbonitrile 2b 630 mg 4.65 mmol 1M aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide 1.1 equiv. 5.12 ml and approximately 30 aqueous solution of hydrogen peroxide 5 equiv. 2.72 ml were stirred in methanol 30 ml at room temperature for 3 hours. The volume of reaction mixture was reduced in vacuo precipitate filtered and dried to give 5 amino 1 ethyl 1H pyrazolo 4 carboxylic acid amide 3b 639 g 78 .

A mixture of 5 amino 1 3 dimethyl 1H pyrazolo 4 carboxylic acid amide 3b 782 mg 5.07 mmol and urea 1.53 g 5 equiv. was heated to 180 C. for 2 h. The reaction was cooled down and the solid was dissolved in hot KOH aq 50 200 mL . The resulting mixture was neutralized with 2M hydrochloric acid. The precipitated product was filtered and washed with water to yield 1 ethyl 1 7 dihydro pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 4 6 dione 4b 690 mg .

Phosphorus pentachloride 3.78 g 3 equiv. was added to a mixture of 1 ethyl 1 7 dihydro pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 4 6 dione 4b 1.09 g 6.06 mmol in phosphorus oxychloride 15 ml . The reaction mixture was heated to reflux for 36 h. Excess of phosphorus oxychloride was distilled off under reduced pressure. The residue was poured on ice. Extraction into DCM 3 and purification by column chromatography gave 4 6 dichloro 1 ethyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 5b 576 mg as a white solid.

m Anisidine 1.1 eq was added to a solution of 4 6 dichloro 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 5 1 eq. and triethylamine NEt 1.5 eq in ethanol. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hr and then ether was added. The solid was filtered off and the filtrate concentrated in vacuo to give 6 chloro N 3 methoxyphenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 amine 6.

To a solution of 3 bromo 2 methyl aniline 5.0 g 26.9 mmol in chloroform 50 mL was added potassium acetate 1.05 eq. 28.2 mmol 2.77 g . Acetic anhydride 2.0 eq. 53.7 mmol 5.07 mL was added with concurrent cooling in ice water. The mixture was then stirred at room temperature for 10 minutes after which time a white gelatinous solid formed. 18 Crown 6 0.2 eq. 5.37 mmol 1.42 g was added followed by iso amyl nitrite 2.2 eq. 59.1 mmol 7.94 mL and the mixture was heated under reflux for 18 h. The reaction mixture was allowed to cool and was partitioned between chloroform 3 100 mL and saturated aqueous sodium hydrogen carbonate 100 mL . The combined organic extracts were washed with brine 100 mL separated and dried MgSO .

The crude product was evaporated onto silica and purified by chromatography eluting with 20 to 40 EtOAc petrol to give 1 4 bromo indazol 1 yl ethanone A 3.14 g 49 as an orange solid and 4 bromo 1H indazole B 2.13 g 40 as a pale orange solid. A H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 2.80 3H s 7.41 1H t J 7.8 Hz 7.50 1H d J 7.8 Hz 8.15 1H s 8.40 1H d J 7.8 Hz . B H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.25 1H t J 7.3 Hz 7.33 1H d J 7.3 Hz 7.46 1H d J 7.3 Hz 8.11 1H s 10.20 1H br s .

To a solution of the 1 4 bromo indazol 1 yl ethanone A 3.09 g 12.9 mmol in MeOH 50 mL was added 6N aqueous HCl 30 mL and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 7 h. The MeOH was evaporated and the mixture partitioned between EtOAc 2 50 mL and water 50 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine 50 mL separated and dried MgSO . The solvent was removed by evaporation under reduced pressure to give 4 bromo 1H indazole B 2.36 g 93 .

To a solution of the 4 bromo 1H indazole B 500 mg 2.54 mmol and bis pinacolato diboron 1.5 eq. 3.81 mmol in DMSO 20 mL was added potassium acetate 3.0 eq. 7.61 mmol 747 mg dried in drying pistol and PdCl dppf 3 mol 0.076 mmol 62 mg . The mixture was degassed with argon and heated at 80 C. for 40 h. The reaction mixture was allowed to cool and partitioned between water 50 mL and ether 3 50 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine 50 mL separated and dried MgSO . The crude material was purified by chromatography eluting with 30 to 40 EtOAc petrol to give an inseparable 3 1 mixture of the 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1H indazole 24 369 mg 60 and indazole 60 mg 20 isolated as a yellow gum which solidified upon standing to furnish as an off white solid. H NMR 400 MHz d DMSO 1.41 12H s 7.40 1H dd J 8.4 Hz 6.9 Hz 7.59 1H d J 8.4 Hz 7.67 1H d J 6.9 Hz 10.00 1H br s 8.45 1H s and indazole 7.40 1H t 7.18 1H t J 7.9 Hz 7.50 1H d J 9.1 Hz 7.77 1H d J 7.9 Hz 8.09 1H s impurity at 1.25.

To a solution of 2 methyl 3 nitroaniline 2.27 g 14.91 mmol in acetic acid 60 mL was added a solution of sodium nitrite 1.13 g 1.1 eq. in water 5 mL . After 2 h the deep red solution was poured onto ice water and the resulting precipitate collected by filtration to yield 4 nitro 1H indazole C 1.98 g 81 .

A mixture of 4 nitro 1H indazole C 760 mg 4.68 mmol palladium on charcoal 10 cat. and ethanol 30 mL was stirred under a balloon of hydrogen for 4 h. The reaction mixture was then filtered through celite and the solvent removed in vacuo to yield 1H indazol 4 ylamine D 631 mg 100 .

An aqueous solution of sodium nitrite 337 mg 4.89 mmol in water 2 mL was added dropwise to a suspension of 1H indazol 4 ylamine D 631 mg 4.74 mmol in 6M hydrochloric acid 7.2 mL at below 0 C. After stirring for 30 minutes sodium tetrafluoroborate 724 mg was added to the reaction mixture. A viscous solution resulted which was filtered and washed briefly with water to yield 1H indazole 4 diazonium tetrafluoroborate salt E 218 mg 20 as a deep red solid.

Dry methanol 4 mL was purged with argon for 5 minutes. To this was added 1H indazole 4 diazonium tetrafluoroborate salt 218 mg 0.94 mmol bis pinacolato diboron 239 mg 1.0 eq. and 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene palladium II chloride 20 mg . The reaction mixture was stirred for 5 h and then filtered through celite. The residue was purified using flash chromatography to yield 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1H indazole 24 117 mg .

Step A Preparation of 4 chloro 1H indazole To a 250 ml flask with stir bar was added 2 methyl 3 chloroaniline 8.4 ml 9.95 g 70.6 mmol potassium acetate 8.3 g 84.7 mmol and chloroform 120 ml . This mixture was cooled to 0 C. with stirring. To the cooled mixture was added acetic anhydride 20.0 ml 212 mmol drop wise over 2 minutes. The reaction mixture was warmed to 25 C. and stirred for 1 hour. At this point the reaction was heated to 60 C. Isoamyl nitrite 18.9 ml 141 mmol was added and the reaction was stirred overnight at 60 C. Once complete water 75 ml and THF 150 ml were added and the reaction was cooled to 0 C. LiOH 20.7 g 494 mmol was added and the reaction was stirred at 0 C. for 3 hours. Water 200 ml was added and the product was extracted with EtOAc 300 ml 100 ml . The organic layers were combined dried with MgSOand concentrated in vacuo to yield 4 chloro 1H indazole 11.07 g 100 as an orange solid. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.18 d J 1 Hz 1H 7.33 d J 8 Hz 1H 7.31 t J 7 Hz 1H 7.17 dd J 7 Hz 1 Hz 1H . LCMS ESI pos m e 153 M 1 .

Step B Preparation of 4 chloro 1 tetrahydro 2H pyran 2 yl 1H indazole To a 1 L flask with mechanical stirrer was added 4 chloro 1H indazole 75.0 g 0.492 mol pyridinium p toluenesulfonate 1.24 g 4.92 mmol CHCl 500 ml and 3 4 dihydro 2H pyran 98.6 ml 1.08 mol . With stirring this mixture was heated to 45 C. for 16 hours. Analysis of reaction mixture shows production of both isomers of product. Cooled reaction to 25 C. and added CHCl 200 ml . Washed the solution with water 300 ml and saturated NaHCO 250 ml . Dried the organics with MgSOand concentrated to dryness. Purified the crude product by dissolving in EtOAc hexanes 4 6 1 L and adding SiO 1.2 L . The mixture was filtered and the cake was washed with EtOAc Hexanes 4 6 2 L . The organics were concentrated in vacuo to yield 4 chloro 1 tetrahydro 2H pyran 2 yl 1H indazole 110.2 g 95 as an orange solid. Isomer 1 H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.10 d J 1 Hz 1H 7.50 dd J 9 Hz 1 Hz 1H 7.29 dd J 9 Hz 8 Hz 1H 7.15 dd J 8 Hz 1 Hz 1H 5.71 dd J 9 Hz 3 Hz 1H 4.02 m 1H 3.55 m 1H 2.51 m 1H 2.02 m 2H 1.55 m 3H . LCMS ESI pos m e 237 M 1 Isomer 2 H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.25 d J 1 Hz 1H 7.62 dd J 9 Hz 1 Hz 1H 7.20 dd J 9 Hz 8 Hz 1H 7.06 dd J 8 Hz 1 Hz 1H 5.69 dd J 9 Hz 3 Hz 1H 4.15 m 1H 3.80 m 1H 2.22 m 2H 2.05 m 1H 1.75 m 3H . LCMS ESI pos m e 237 M 1 .

Step C Preparation of 1 tetrahydro 2H pyran 2 yl 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1H indazole 41 To a 500 ml flask with stir bar was added 4 chloro 1 tetrahydro 2H pyran 2 yl 1H indazole 10.0 g 42.2 mmol DMSO 176 ml PdCl PPH 6.2 g 8.86 mmol tricyclohexylphosphine 0.47 g 1.69 mmol bis pinacolato diboron 16.1 g 63.4 mmol and potassium acetate 12.4 g 0.127 mol . With stirring the mixture was heated to 130 C. for 16 hours. The reaction was cooled to 25 C. and EtOAc 600 ml was added and washed with water 2 250 ml . The organics were dried with MgSOand concentrated in vacuo to dryness. The crude product was purified by SiOplug 120 g eluting with 10 EtOAc Hexanes 1 L and 30 EtOAc Hexanes 1 L . The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to give 13.9 g 100 of product 41 as a 20 wt wt solution in ethyl acetate. H NMR shows the presence of about 20 wt wt bis pinacolato diboron. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.37 s 1H 7.62 dd J 14 Hz 2 Hz 1H 7.60 dd J 7 Hz 1 Hz 1H 7.31 dd J 8 Hz 7 Hz 1H 5.65 dd J 9 Hz 3 Hz 1H 4.05 m 1H 3.75 m 1H 2.59 m 1H 2.15 m 1H 2.05 m 1H 1.75 m 3H 1.34 s 12H . LCMS ESI pos m e 245 M 1 .

Step A Preparation of 4 nitro 1H indazole A mixture of 2 methyl 3 nitro aniline 200 g 1.315 moles acetic acid 8000 ml was cooled to 15 20 C. and a solution of sodium nitrite 90.6 g 1.315 moles in water 200 ml was slowly added over 30 min. After the addition the reaction temp. was increased to 25 30 C. and the reaction was stirred at this temp for 2 3 h. Reaction progress was monitored by TLC and after completion of reaction product was filtered and residue was washed with acetic acid 1000 ml . Acetic acid was distilled under vacuum 550 mm of Hg below 80 C. and water 8000 ml was added cooled to 25 30 C. and stirred for 30 min. The slurry was filtered and washed with water 1000 ml . Crude product was dried under heating at 70 80 C. for 2 hours then was taken in 5 ethyl acetate n hexane 100 2000 ml solution and stirred for 1 1.5 h at ambient temperature. The suspension was filtered and washed with 5 ethyl acetate n hexane mixture 25 475 ml . The product obtained was dried under vacuum at below 80 C. for 10 12 h to give 4 nitro 1H indazole as a brown solid 150 g 70 mp 200 203 C. H NMR 200 MHz CDCl 13.4 br 1H 8.6 s 1H 8.2 7.95 dd 2H 7.4 m 1H . ESMS m z 164 M 1 . Purity 95 HPLC 

Step B Preparation of 4 amino 1H indazole A mixture of 4 nitro 1H indazole 200 g 1.22 moles and 10 palladium on carbon 20.0 g in EtOH 3000 ml was hydrogenated at ambient temperature reaction was exothermic and temperature increased to 50 C. . After completion of reaction the catalyst was removed by filtration. The solvent was evaporated under vacuum at below 80 C. and cooled to room temperature and n hexane 1000 ml was added to the residue and stirred for 30 min. Isolated solid was filtered and washed with n hexane 200 ml . Product was dried under vacuum at 70 80 C. for 10 12 h to give 4 amino 1H indazole as a brown solid 114 g 70 m. p. 136 143 C. H NMR 200 MHz CDCl 12 br 1H 8.0 s 1H 7.1 7.0 dd 2H 6.5 d 1H 3.9 m 2H . ESMS m z 134 M 1 . Purity 90 95 HPLC 

Step C Preparation of 4 iodo 1H indazole A mixture of 4 amino 1H indazole 50.0 g 0.375 moles in water 100 ml and con. hydrochloric acid 182 ml was cooled to 10 C. To this a solution of sodium nitrite 51.7 g 0.75 moles in water 75 ml was added drop wise at 10 C. in about 30 60 min. during addition frothing was observed . In another flask a mixture of potassium iodide 311 g 1.87 moles in water 3000 ml was prepared at room temperature and to this above cooled diazonium salt at 30 40 C. was added in about 30 40 min. The reaction was maintained at 30 C. for 1 h and after completion of reaction ethyl acetate 500 ml was added and the reaction mixture was filtered through Celite. The layers were separated and the aq. layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 500 ml . The combined organic layers were washed with 5 hypo solution 2 500 ml brine 500 ml dried NaSO and concentrated. Crude product was purified by chromatography silica gel hexane 15 20 ethyl acetate hexane to furnish 4 iodo 1H indazole as an orange solid 23.0 g 25 . mp 151 177 C H NMR 200 MHz CDCl 12.4 br 1H 8.0 s 1H 7.6 dd 2H 7.1 d 1H . ESMS m z 245 M 1 . Purity 95 98 HPLC .

Step D Preparation of 4 iodo 1 2 tetrahydropyranyl indazole A mixture of 4 amino 1H indazole 250.0 g 1.024 moles 3 4 dihydro 2H pyran 126.0 g 1.5 moles and PPTS 2.57 g 0.01 moles in CHCl 1250 ml was heated to 50 C. for 2 h. The reaction was cooled to room temperature and poured into water 625 ml the layers were separated and aqueous layer was extracted with CHCl 250 ml . The combined organic layers were washed with water 625 ml dried NaSO and concentrated. Crude residue was purified by chromatography silica gel hexane 5 10 ethyl acetate hexane to furnish 4 iodo 1 2 tetrahydropyranyl indazole as an oil 807.0 g 60 . H NMR 200 MHz CDCl 8.5 s 1H 7.8 m 1H 7.6 d 1H 7.25 m 1H 5.7 dd 1H 4.2 3.8 dd 1H 2.2 2.0 m 4H 2.0 1.8 m 4H . ESMS m z 329 M 1 .

Step E Preparation of 1 tetrahydro 2H pyran 2 yl 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1H indazole 41 A mixture of 4 iodo 1 2 tetrahydropyranyl indazole 100 g 0.304 moles bispinacalotodiborane 96.4 g 0.381 moles PdCl dppf 8.91 g 0.012 moles and potassium acetate 85.97 g 0.905 moles in DMSO 500 ml were heated to 80 C. for 2 3 h. After completion reaction was cooled to room temperature and water 1500 ml was added. Reaction mass was extracted into ethyl acetate 3 200 ml and combined organic layers were evaporated dried NaSO and concentrated. Crude product was purified by column chromatography silica gel hexane 5 10 ethyl acetate hexane to obtain 41 as viscous brown oil 70.0 g 70 . H NMR CDCl 8.5 s 1H 7.8 m 1H 7.6 d 1H 7.25 m 1H 5.7 dd 1H 4.2 3.8 dd 1H 2.2 2.0 m 4H 2.0 1.8 m 4H 1.4 1.2 s 12H . ESMS m z 329 M 1 

6 Chloro N 3 methoxyphenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 amine 6 was reacted with pyrazole 4 boronic acid pinacol ester using General Procedure A. Addition of water and CHClto the reaction followed by sonication and filtration yielded 101. NMR CDCl3 3.87 s 3H CH3 4.07 s 3H CH3 6.87 dd H ArH J 2.4 8.37 7.13 d H ArH J 7.85 7.29 m H ArH 7.37 t H ArH J 8.13 7.43 s H ArH 8.37 s 2H 2 ArH . MS ESI MH 322.23

General Procedure D and General Procedure A gave 102. NMR CDCl3 3.89 3H s 4.01 3H s 4.26 3H s 6.93 6.96 2H m 7.03 1H d 7.49 1H t 7.63 1H d 7.82 1H s 8.37 1H d 8.82 1H s 10.09 1H br . MS MH 403

General Procedure D and General Procedure A gave 103. NMR DMSO 3.38 3H s 4.20 3H s 7.45 1H t 7.68 1H d 7.77 2H d 8.04 1H s 8.17 2H d 8.20 1H d 8.41 1H s 13.20 1H br . MS MH 421.17 85 

General Procedure E and General Procedure A gave 104. NMR DMSO d6 3.11 3H s 4.25 3H s 7.54 1H d 7.61 1H t 7.67 1H t 7.81 1H d 8.20 1H d 8.35 1H s 8.57 1H d 8.67 1H s 9.11 1H s 10.15 1H br 13.33 1H br . MS MH 420.17 45 

General Procedure E and General Procedure A gave 105. NMR CDCl3 3.52 3H s 4.32 3H s 4.68 2H s 7.60 7.71 4H m 8.31 1H d 8.35 1H s 8.41 1H s 8.69 1H d 9.30 1H s 10.20 1H br . MS MH 371.24 20 MH MeCN 412.24 100 

General Procedure E and General Procedure A gave 106. NMR CDCl3 4.35 3H s 7.63 1H m 7.73 1H d 7.81 1H t 7.93 1H d 8.40 1H s 8.61 1H dd 8.68 8.70 2H m 9.26 1H s 10.20 1H br . MS MH MeCN 393.18 100 

General Procedure E and General Procedure A gave 107. NMR CDCl3 3.13 3H d 4.33 3H s 6.30 1H br 7.62 1H t 7.70 7.76 2H m 8.02 1H d 8.43 1H s 8.51 1H d 8.68 1H d 8.78 1H s 9.27 1H s 10.15 1H br . MS MH 384.22 100 

General Procedure E and General Procedure A gave 108. NMR CDCl3 4.00 3H s 4.32 3H s 7.19 1H dd 7.56 7.69 2H m 7.70 1H d 7.94 7.96 2H m 8.41 1H s 8.69 1H d 9.31 1H s 10.10 1H br . MS MH 357.20 20 MH MeCN 398.21 100 

General Procedure E and General Procedure A gave 109. NMR CDCl3 2.30 3H s 4.32 3H s 7.39 1H s 7.60 7.64 2H m 7.70 1H d 7.80 1H d 8.15 1H d 8.49 1H s 8.59 1H s 8.68 1H d 9.30 1H s 10.10 1H br . MS MH 384.19 100 

General Procedure E and General Procedure A gave 110. NMR DMSO 3.36 3H s 4.26 3H s 7.60 1H t 7.81 1H d 8.23 2H d 8.58 1H d 8.70 2H d 8.78 1H s 9.10 1H s . MS MH 405.29 3 MH AcN 446.19 70 

General Procedure E and General Procedure A gave 111. NMR CDCl3 3.97 3H s 4.30 3H s 7.18 2H d 7.61 1H t 7.69 1H d 8.40 1H s 8.41 2H d 8.67 1H d 9.30 1H s 10.15 1H br . MS MH 357.22 85 

General Procedure E and General Procedure A gave 112. NMR CDCl3 3.95 3H s 4.01 3H s 4.21 3H s 7.04 1H d 7.52 1H t 7.60 1H d 7.90 1H d 7.96 1H s 8.30 1H s 8.55 1H d 9.20 1H s 10.10 1H br . MS MH 387.23 60 

General Procedure D and General Procedure A gave 113. NMR CDCl3 4.29 3H s 7.44 7.47 1H m 7.51 7.54 1H m 7.57 1H d 7.62 1H d 8.16 1H s 8.25 1H d 8.67 8.70 2H m 8.76 1H s 10.15 1H br . MS MH 344.23 15 

A mixture of 3 methoxyphenol 70 L and NaH 37 mg in dry THF 3 mL under Nwas stirred for 30 min. 4 6 Dichloro 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 5 was added. After 18 hr the reaction mixture was cooled diluted with water extracted with EtOAc dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo then purified by flash chromatography to give a 2 1 mixture of 6 chloro 4 3 methoxy phenoxy 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine and 3 methoxyphenol.

6 Chloro 4 3 methoxy phenoxy 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine was reacted with indazole boronic acid pinacol ester in General Procedure A. Addition of water gave a solid which was purified by preparative HPLC to give 114. NMR CDCl3 3.81 s 3H CH3 4.18 s 3H CH3 7.02 7.04 m 2H 2 ArH 7.09 m H ArH 7.44 7.52 m 2H 2 ArH 7.70 d H ArH J 9 Hz 8.16 s H ArH 8.22 d H ArH J 6.9 Hz 8.34 s H ArH 13.17 sbr H NH . MS ESI MH 373.24

6 Chloro N 3 methoxyphenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 amine 6 was reacted with 2 oxo 2 3 dihydro 1H benzoimidazole 5 boronic acid pinacol ester using General Procedure A. Purification on silica yielded 115. NMR CDCl3 3.84 s CH3 4.01 s CH3 6.72 dd H ArH J 2.1 8.28 7.04 d H ArH J 8.2 7.35 t H ArH J 8 7.47 d H ArH J 8 7.72 s H NH 8.06 s H NH 8.18 dd H ArH J 1.4 8.3 8.25 s H NH 10.03 s H ArH 10.81 s H ArH 10.86 s H ArH . MS ESI MH 388.21

6 Chloro N 3 methoxyphenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 amine 6 was reacted with 5 quinolineboronic acid using General Procedure A. Purification on silica yielded 116. NMR CDCl3 3.80 s CH3 4.13 s CH3 6.88 dd H ArH J 2.3 8.3 7.07 d H ArH J 6.18 7.22 s H NH 7.35 t H ArH J 8.1 7.44 7.51 m 3H 3 ArH 7.85 t H ArH J 8.4 8.25 d H ArH J 8.4 8.29 dd H ArH J 1.1 8.3 8.98 dd H ArH J 1.7 4.1 9.26 d H ArH J 8.6 . MS ESI MH 383.21

6 Chloro N 3 methoxyphenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 amine 6 was reacted with quinoline 3 boronic acid using General Procedure A. Purification on silica yielded 117. NMR CDCl3 3.90 s 3H CH3 4.17 s 3H CH3 6.90 dd H ArH J 2.4 8.32 7.20 d H ArH J 7.92 7.35 d H ArH J 11.36 7.41 t H ArH J 8.11 7.51 s H NH 7.62 t H ArH J 7.51 7.79 t H ArH J 6.970 8.00 d H ArH J 8.12 8.20 d H ArH J 8.43 9.30 d H ArH J 1.8 10.07 d H ArH J 2.09 . MS ESI MH 383.23

 6 Chloro 1 3 dimethyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl 3 methoxy phenyl amine was reacted with 2 amino pyrimidine boronic acid pinacol ester using General Procedure A to give 118. NMR CDCl3 2.74 3H s 3.90 3H s 4.04 3H s 5.28 2H br 6.76 1H d 6.99 1H br 7.35 1H d 7.34 1H t 7.55 1H s 9.38 2H s . MS MH 363.22 25 

6 Chloro N 3 methoxyphenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 amine 6 was reacted with 3 4 methylenedioxyphenylboronic acid pinacol ester using General Procedure A. Purification on silica yielded 119. NMR CDCl3 3.88 s 3H CH3 4.10 s 3H CH3 6.07 s 2H CH2 6.86 dd H ArH J 1.81 8.3 6.93 d H ArH J 8.2 7.13 m 2H 2 ArH 7.33 s H NH 7.38 t H ArH J 8.11 7.47 s H ArH 8.06 d H ArH J 1.54 8.17 dd H ArH J 1.63 8.21 . MS ESI MH 376.18

6 Chloro N 3 methoxyphenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 amine 6 was reacted with 3 methylpyrazole 4 boronic acid pinacol ester using General Procedure A. Purification on silica yielded 120. NMR CDCl3 2.80 s 3H CH3 3.87 s 3H CH3 4.06 s 3H CH3 6.86 dd H ArH J 1.7 8.29 7.14 dd H ArH J 1.2 7.89 7.25 s H ArH 7.36 t H ArH J 8.11 7.44 s H ArH 8.32 s H ArH . MS ESI MH 336.24

6 Chloro N 3 methoxyphenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 amine 6 was reacted with 7 azaindole 5 boronic acid pinacol ester using General Procedure A. Purification on silica yielded 121. NMR CDCl3 3.91 s 3H CH3 4.15 s 3H CH3 6.66 m H ArH 6.89 m H ArH 7.17 m H ArH 7.24 s H ArH 7.38 7.42 m 3H 3 ArH 7.51 s H ArH 9.04 sbr H NH 9.13 m H ArH 9.56 m H ArH . MS ESI MH 372.25

6 Chloro N 3 methoxyphenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 amine 6 was reacted with indazole boronic acid pinacol ester using General Procedure A. Purification on silica yielded 122. NMR CDCl3 3.88 s 3H CH3 4.19 s 3H CH3 6.88 6.91 m H ArH 7.16 7.18 m H ArH 7.31 sbr H NH 7.40 t. H ArH J 8.1 Hz 7.50 s H ArH 7.55 t. H ArH J 4 Hz 7.65 d H ArH J 8.3 Hz 8.45 d H ArH J 7.49 Hz 9.17 s H ArH 10.2 sbr H NH . MS ESI MH 372.25

6 Chloro N 3 methoxyphenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 amine 6 was reacted with pyridine 4 boronic acid pinacol ester using General Procedure A. Purification on silica yielded 123. NMR CDCl3 3.89 s 3H CH3 4.14 s 3H CH3 6.89 6.92 m H ArH 7.16 m H ArH 7.25 s H ArH 7.41 t H ArH J 8.1 HZ 7.49 sbr H NH 8.39 dd 2H 2 ArH J 1.5 Hz 4.5 Hz 8.80 dd 2H 2 ArH J 1.5 Hz 4.5 Hz . MS ESI MH 333.24

6 Chloro N 3 methoxyphenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 amine 6 from Example 4 was reacted with pyridine 3 boronic acid using General Procedure A. Purification on silica yielded 124. NMR CDCl3 3.88 s 3H CH3 4.13 s 3H CH3 6.88 6.90 m H ArH 7.16 m H ArH 7.30 s H ArH 7.38 7.46 m 2H 2 ArH 7.50 sbr H NH 8.72 m H ArH 8.79 8.82 m H ArH 9.76 m H ArH . MS ESI MH 333.24

6 Chloro 4 3 methoxy phenoxy 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 80 mg was coupled to 2 aminopyridine 5 boronic acid pinacol ester via General Procedure A. The product was purified by reverse phase HPLC to yield 47.3 mg of 125. MS Q1 349.2 M 

6 Chloro 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 4 yl 3 methoxy phenyl amine 80 mg was coupled to 2 aminopyridine 5 boronic acid pinacol ester via General Procedure A and purified by reverse phase HPLC to yield 45 mg of 126. MS Q1 348.2 M .

6 Chloro 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 4 yl 3 methoxyphenyl amine 80 mg was coupled to 2 aminopyrimidine 5 boronic acid pinacol ester via General Procedure A. The product was purified by reverse phase HPLC to yield 8.9 mg of 127. MS Q1 349.2 M .

Reaction of 3 methylsulfonyl benzylamine with 4 6 dichloro 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 5 by General Procedure B gave 6 chloro 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl 3 methanesulfonyl benzyl amine.

 6 Chloro 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl 3 methanesulfonyl benzyl amine was reacted with indazole boronic acid pinacol ester in General Procedure A. Purification on silica yielded 128. NMR CDCl 3.03 s 3H CH3 4.20 s 3H CH3 5.13 d H ArH J 5.95 Hz 5.84 sbr H NH 7.51 7.65 m 3H 3 ArH 7.79 d H ArH J 7.72 Hz 7.91 d H ArH J 7.77 Hz 7.93 s H ArH 8.09 s H ArH 8.39 d H ArH J 7.28 Hz 9.04 s H ArH 10.13 sbr H NH . MS ESI MH 434.10

Reaction of 3 aminomethylpyridine with 4 6 dichloro 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 5 by General Procedure B gave 6 chloro 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl pyridin 3 ylmethyl amine.

6 Chloro 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl pyridin 3 ylmethyl amine was reacted with indazole boronic acid pinacol ester in General Procedure A. Purification on silica yielded 129. NMR CDCl 4.10 s 3H CH3 4.98 d 2H CH2 J 5.81 Hz 5.60 sbr H NH 7.21 7.24 m H ArH 7.42 7.46 m H ArH 7.55 d H ArH J 8.29 Hz 7.73 d H ArH J 7.90 Hz 7.82 s H ArH 8.33 d H ArH J 7.27 Hz 8.51 m H ArH 8.67 m H ArH 9.05 s H ArH 10.05 sbr H NH . MS ESI MH 357.14

Reaction of 2 methoxyethylamine with 4 6 dichloro 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 5 by General Procedure B gave 6 chloro 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl 2 methoxy ethyl amine.

 6 Chloro 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl 2 methoxy ethyl amine was reacted with indazole boronic acid pinacol ester in General Procedure A. Purification on silica yielded 130. NMR CDCl3 3.48 s 3H CH3 3.77 t H ArH J 5.13 Hz 4.04 m 2H CH2 4.18 s 3H CH3 5.80 sbr H NH 7.53 t H ArH J 7.29 Hz 7.63 d H ArH J 8.29 HZ 7.95 s H ArH 8.43 d H ArH J 7.24 Hz 9.17 s H ArH 10.2 sbr H NH . MS ESI MH 324.14

Reaction of N N N trimethylethylene diamine with 4 6 dichloro 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 5 by General Procedure B gave N 6 chloro 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl N N N trimethyl ethane 1 2 diamine.

N 6 chloro 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl N N N trimethyl ethane 1 2 diamine was reacted with indazole boronic acid pinacol ester in General Procedure A. Purification on silica yielded 131. NMR CDCl3 2.38 s 6H 2 CH3 2.73 t 2H CH2 J 7.17 Hz 3.54 s 311 CH3 4.08 m 2H CH2 4.17 s 3H CH3 7.52 t H ArH J 7.77 Hz 7.60 d H ArH J 8.27 Hz 8.01 s H ArH 8.42 d H ArH J 7.23 Hz 9.19 s H ArH 10.35 sbr H NH . MS ESI MH 351.18

Reaction of 4 aminoveratrole with 4 6 dichloro 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 5 by General Procedure B gave 6 chloro 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl 3 4 dimethoxy phenyl amine.

 6 Chloro 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl 3 4 dimethoxy phenyl amine was reacted with indazole boronic acid pinacol ester in General Procedure A. Addition of water gave a solid which was purified by preparative HPLC to give 132. NMR CDCl3 3.81 s 3H CH3 3.89 s H ArH 4.07 s 3H CH3 6.88 d H ArH J 8.52 Hz 7.00 dd H ArH J 2.41 Hz 8.46 Hz 7.15 7.18 m 2H 2 ArH 7.43 7.47 m H ArH 7.54 7.56 m H ArH 8.33 d H ArH J 7.26 Hz 9.08 s H ArH 10.1 sbr H NH . MS ESI MH 402.14

General Procedure D and General Procedure A gave 133. NMR CDCl3 3.30 2H t 4.23 3H s 4.99 2H t 7.26 7.31 1H m 7.56 1H t 7.66 7.72 2H m 8.05 1H s 8.47 1H d 8.54 1H d 8.67 1H s 9.18 1H s 10.20 1H br . MS MH 372.16 100 

General Procedure D and General Procedure A gave 134. NMR DMSO 4.17 3H s 5.89 2H s 7.45 7.48 1H m 7.55 1H t 7.77 1H d 8.04 1H d 8.29 1H s 8.45 1H d 8.60 1H d 8.85 1H s 9.03 1H s 13.30 1H br . MS MH 358.11 65 

General Procedure D and General Procedure A gave 135. NMR CDCL3 3.08 3H s 4.26 3H s 5.92 2H s 7.57 1H t 7.69 1H d 7.79 2H d 8.02 2H d 8.12 1H s 8.45 1H d 9.12 1H s 10.20 1H br . MS MH 435.08 100 

General Procedure E and General Procedure A gave 136. NMR CDCl3 3.21 3H s 4.35 3H s 7.63 1H t 7.73 1H d 7.91 1H t 8.22 1H d 8.43 1H s 8.67 8.71 2H m 8.96 1H s 9.26 1H s 10.20 1H br . MS MH 404.17 5 MH AcN 446.10 100 

General Procedure E and General Procedure A gave 137. NMR CDCl3 3.10 3H br 3.21 3H br 4.33 3H s 7.62 1H t 7.71 2H d 8.40 1H s 8.42 2H d 8.68 1H d 9.29 1H s 10.20 1H br . MS MH 398.18 5 MH AcN 439.19 100 

General Procedure E and General Procedure A gave 138. NMR CDCl3 2.85 6H s 4.35 3H s 7.63 1H t 7.73 1H d 8.08 2H d 8.41 1H s 8.54 2H d 8.69 1H d 9.28 1H s 10.20 1H br . MS MH 434.18 5 MH AcN 475.11 100 

General Procedure E and General Procedure A gave 139. NMR CDCl3 4.30 3H s 6.14 2H s 7.08 1H d 7.60 1H t 7.69 1H d 7.92 1H s 7.95 1H d 8.37 1H s 8.66 1H d 9.28 1H s 10.20 1H br . MS MH 371.26 30 

General Procedure E and General Procedure A gave 140. NMR CDCl3 4.33 3H s 7.63 1H t 7.71 7.76 2H m 8.22 1H dd 8.38 1H s 8.49 1H s 8.67 1H d 9.25 1H s 10.20 1H br . MS MH AcN 436.11 100 

 6 Chloro 1 3 dimethyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl 3 methoxyphenyl amine was reacted with indazole boronic acid pinacol ester using General Procedure A to give 141. NMR CDCl3 2.78 3H s 3.89 3H s 4.14 3H s 6.79 1H dd 7.02 1H br. s 7.25 1H m 7.37 1H t 7.54 1H t 7.63 7.68 2H m 8.45 1H d 9.10 1H s 10.11 1H br . MS MH 386.20 100 

To 4 methylsulfonyl aniline 500 mg 2.93 mmol in anhydrous DCM 5 ml was added di tert butyldicarbonate 1.2 equiv. 768 mg and DMAP cat. . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. DCM brine extraction and column chromatography gave 4 methanesulfonyl phenyl carbamic acid tert butyl ester as a white solid 280 mg .

To 4 methanesulfonyl phenyl carbamic acid tert butyl ester 280 mg in dry THF 3 ml was added sodium hydride 60 wt suspension in mineral oil 1.4 equiv. 33.3 mg at 0 C. After the effervescence ceased added 4 6 dichloro 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 5 113 mg and the reaction mixture was allowed to warm up to room temperature overnight. DCM brine extraction gave crude 6 chloro 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl 4 methanesulfonyl phenyl carbamic acid tert butyl ester which was reacted with indazole boronic acid pinacol ester in General Procedure A to give 142 as a beige solid 118 mg . NMR d6 DMSO 3.24 3H s 4.15 3H s 7.56 1H t 7.74 1H d 8.01 2H d 8.28 2H d 8.32 1H d 8.41 1H s 8.99 1H s 10.54 1H br 13.25 1H br . MS MH 420.13

Reaction of 2 phenoxyethylamine with 4 6 dichloro 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 5 by General Procedure B gave 6 chloro 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl 2 phenoxy ethyl amine.

 6 Chloro 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl 2 phenoxy ethyl amine was reacted with indazole boronic acid pinacol ester in General Procedure A. Purification by preparative HPLC yielded 143. NMR CDCl 4.19 s 3H CH3 4.27 m 2H CH2 4.36 m 2H CH3 5.83 sbr H NH 7.00 m 3H 3 ArH 7.32 m 2H 2 ArH 7.55 m H ArH 7.64 m H ArH 7.96 s H ArH 8.45 d H ArH J 7.23 Hz0 9.18 s H ArH 10.16 sbr H NH . MS ESI MEI 386.19

Reaction of 3 2 aminoethyl pyridine with 4 6 dichloro 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 5 by General Procedure B gave 6 chloro 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl 2 pyridin 3 yl ethyl amine.

 6 Chloro 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl 2 pyridin 3 yl ethyl amine was reacted with indazole boronic acid pinacol ester in General Procedure A. Purification by preparative HPLC yielded 144. NMR CDCl 3.08 t H CH2 J 7.06 Hz 4.01 m 2H CH2 4.09 s 3H CH3 5.4 sbr H NH 7.20 m H ArH 7.46 m H ArH 7.55 m 2H 2 ArH 7.84 s H ArH 8.35 d H ArH J 7.21 Hz 8.45 m H ArH 8.50 s H ArH 10.13 sbr H NH . MS ESI MH 371.15

General Procedure D and General Procedure A gave 145. NMR CDCl3 3.35 2H t 4.23 3H s 5.00 2H t 7.45 7.50 1H m 7.54 7.59 3H m 7.67 7.70 2H m 8.04 1H s 8.47 1H d 9.18 1H s 10.15 1H br . MS MH 439.12 35 MH AcN 480.19 100 

General Procedure D and General Procedure A gave 146. NMR CDCl3 3.30 2H t 4.23 3H s 4.98 2H t 7.27 7.31 1H m 7.35 7.40 4H m 7.55 1H t 7.67 1H d 8.06 1H s 8.49 1H d 9.19 1H s 10.10 1H br . MS MH 371.13 50 MH AcN 412.12 100 

4 6 Dichloro 1 ethyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 5b was reacted with m anisidine using General Procedure B to give 6 chloro 1 ethyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl 3 methoxy phenyl amine which was reacted with indazole boronic acid pinacol ester using General Procedure A to give 147. NMR CDCl3 1.62 3H t 3.88 3H s 4.62 2H q 6.89 1H dd 7.17 1H d 7.32 1H s 7.40 1H t 7.51 1H s 7.55 1H t 7.64 1H d 8.45 1H d 9.16 1H s 10.20 1H br . MS MH 386.19 100 

Reaction of N methylpiperazine with 4 6 dichloro 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 5 by General Procedure B gave 6 chloro 1 methyl 4 4 methyl piperazin 1 yl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine.

6 Chloro 1 methyl 4 4 methyl piperazin 1 yl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine was reacted with indazole boronic acid pinacol ester using General Procedure A. Purification on silica yielded 148. NMR CDCl3 2.41 3H s 2.60 2.66 4H m 4.15 4.19 7H m 7.50 7.53 1H m 7.61 1H d 8.00 1H s 8.41 1H d 9.13 1H s . MS ESI MH 349

Reaction of 1 methanesulfonyl piperazine with 4 6 dichloro 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 5 by General Procedure B gave 6 chloro 4 4 methanesulfonyl piperazin 1 yl 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine.

6 Chloro 4 4 methane sulfonyl piperazin 1 yl 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine was reacted with indazole boronic acid pinacol ester using General Procedure A. Purification on silica yielded 149. NMR DMSO 2.98 3H s 3.35 3.40 4H m 4.11 3H s 4.18 4.22 4H m 7.48 7.51 1H m 7.70 1H d 8.30 1H d 8.42 1H s 8.95 1H s . 13.20 1H s . MS ESI MH 413

Reaction of thiomorpholine 1 1 dioxide with 4 6 dichloro 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 5 by General Procedure B gave 6 chloro 4 1 1 dioxo thiomorpholin 4 yl 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine.

6 Chloro 4 1 1 dioxo thiomorpholin 4 yl 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine was reacted with indazole boronic acid pinacol ester using General Procedure A. Purification on silica yielded 150. NMR DMSO 3.45 3.50 4H m 4.11 3H s 4.45 4.50 4H m 7.48 7.51 1H m 7.70 1H d 8.30 1H d 8.38 1H s 8.95 1H s . 13.20 1H s . MS ESI MH 425

General Procedure D and General Procedure A gave 151. NMR CDCl3 3.52 3H s 3.94 2H t 4.23 3H s 4.94 2H t 7.56 1H t 7.67 1H d 8.12 1H s 8.49 1H d 9.18 1H s 10.15 1H br . MS MH 325.12 20 366.15 100 

General Procedure D and General Procedure A gave 152. NMR CDCl3 4.24 3H s 5.84 2H s 7.38 7.47 3H m 7.56 7.60 3H m 7.68 1H d 8.09 1H s 8.52 1H d 9.18 1H s 10.15 1H br . MS MH 357.12 35 MH AcN 398.15 100 

General Procedure D and General Procedure A gave 153. NMR CDCl3 3.84 3H s 4.24 3H s 5.81 2H s 6.93 1H dd 7.15 7.19 2H m 7.36 1H t 7.57 1H t 7.67 1H d 8.10 1H s 8.52 1H d 9.19 1H s 10.15 1H br . MS MH 387.14 100 

Reaction of 4 aminotetrahydropyran with 4 6 dichloro 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 5 was converted by General Procedure B to 6 chloro 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl tetrahydropyran 4 yl amine.

 6 Chloro 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl tetrahydro pyran 4 yl amine was reacted with indazole boronic acid pinacol ester in General Procedure A. Purification on silica yielded 154. NMR CDCl3 1.70 1.80 m 2H CH2 2.24 2.27 m 2H CH2 3.67 3.73 m 2H CH2 4.11 4.14 m 2H CH2 4.18 s 3H CH3 4.55 m H CH 5.32 sbr H NH 7.55 t H ArH J 7.76 Hz 7.63 d H ArH J 8.27 Hz 7.92 s H ArH 8.40 d H ArH J 7.23 Hz 9.16 s H ArH 10.22 sbr H NH . MS ESI MH 350.16

Reaction of 4 2 aminoethyl morpholine with 4 6 dichloro 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 5 was converted by General Procedure B to 6 chloro 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl 2 morpholin 4 yl ethyl amine.

 6 Chloro 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl 2 morpholin 4 yl ethyl amine was reacted with indazole boronic acid pinacol ester in General Procedure A. Purification on silica yielded 155. NMR CDCl 2.50 m 4H 2 CH2 2.70 t 2H CH2 J 5.95 Hz 3.71 m 4H 2 CH2 3.80 m 2H CH2 4.08 s 3H CH3 3.05 sbr H NH 7.44 t H ArH J 7.32 Hz 7.54 d H ArH J XXHz 7.87 s H ArH 8.35 m H ArH 9.08 s H NH . MS ESI MH 379.17

Reaction of 3 4 methylenedioxy aniline with 4 6 dichloro 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 5 was converted by General Procedure B to benzo 1 3 dioxol 5 yl 6 chloro 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl amine.

Benzo 1 3 dioxol 5 yl 6 chloro 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl amine was reacted with indazole boronic acid pinacol ester in General Procedure A. Addition of water gave a solid which was purified by preparative HPLC and trituration to give 156. NMR CDCl3 3.52 s 3H CH3 4.17 s 3H CH3 6.10 s 2H CH2 6.92 d H ArH J 8.16 Hz 7.00 d H ArH J 8.16 Hz 7.10 s H ArH 7.16 sbr H NH 7.23 s H ArH 7.55 t H ArH J 8.17 Hz 7.64 d H ArH J 8.31 Hz0 8.41 d H ArH J 7.26 Hz 9.16 s H ArH 10.20 sbr H NH . MS ESI MH 386.04

Reaction of 4 aminoacetanilide with 4 6 dichloro 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 5 was converted by General Procedure B to N 4 6 chloro 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 ylamino phenyl acetamide.

N 4 6 chloro 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 ylamino phenyl acetamide was reacted with indazole boronic acid pinacol ester in General Procedure A. Purification on silica and trituration yielded 157. NMR CDCl3 2.08 s 3H CH3 4.17 s 3H CH3 7.51 t H ArH J 7.77 Hz 7.69 m 3H 3 ArH 7.78 m 2H 2 ArH 8.28 d H ArH J 7.26 Hz 8.17 sbr H NH 8.93 s H ArH 9.98 s H ArH 10.07 s H ArH 13.18 s H ArH . MS ESI MH 399.13

General Procedure D and General Procedure A gave 158. NMR CDCl3 2.23 2H quintet 2.84 2H t 4.14 3H s 4.72 2H t 7.14 7.26 1H m 7.45 1H t 7.51 1H d 7.58 1H d 7.97 1H s 8.35 1H d 8.40 1H d 8.48 1H s 9.07 1H s 10.20 1H br . MS MH 386.11 100 

General Procedure E and General Procedure A gave 159. NMR CDCl3 3.14 3H br 3.22 3H br 4.33 3H s 7.61 1H t 7.69 7.74 3H m 8.40 8.45 3H m 8.68 1H d 9.27 1H s 10.20 1H br . MS MH 398.16 100 .

4 6 Dichloro 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 5 was converted by General Procedure B and General Procedure A to give 160.

4 6 Dichloro 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 5 was converted by General Procedure B and General Procedure A to give 161.

4 6 Dichloro 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 5 was converted by General Procedure B and General Procedure A to give 162.

4 6 Dichloro 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 5 was converted by General Procedure B and General Procedure A to give 163.

4 6 Dichloro 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 5 was converted by General Procedure B and General Procedure A to give 164.

4 6 Dichloro 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 5 was converted by General Procedure B and General Procedure A to give 165.

4 6 Dichloro 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 5 was converted by General Procedure B and General Procedure A to give 166.

4 6 Dichloro 1 methyl 1 1 pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 5 was converted by General Procedure B and General Procedure A to give 167.

4 6 Dichloro 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 5 was converted by General Procedure B and General Procedure A to give 168.

4 6 Dichloro 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 5 was converted by General Procedure B and General Procedure A to give 169.

4 6 Dichloro 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 5 was converted by General Procedure B and General Procedure A to give 170.

4 6 Dichloro 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 5 was converted by General Procedure D and General Procedure A to give 171.

4 6 Dichloro 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 5 was converted by General Procedure B and General Procedure A to give 172.

4 6 Dichloro 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 5 was converted by General Procedure B and General Procedure A to give 173.

4 6 Dichloro 1 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 5 was converted by General Procedure D and General Procedure A to give 174.

Binding Assays Initial polarization experiments were performed on an Analyst HT 96 384 Molecular Devices Corp Sunnyvale Calif. . Samples for fluorescence polarization affinity measurements were prepared by addition of 1 3 serial dilutions of p110 alpha PI3K Upstate Cell Signaling Solutions Charlottesville Va. starting at a final concentration of 20 ug mL in polarization buffer 10 mM Tris pH 7.5 50 mM NaCl 4 mM MgCl 0.05 Chaps and 1 mM DTT to 10 mM PIP Echelon Inc. Salt Lake City Utah. final concentration. After an incubation time of 30 minutes at room temperature the reactions were stopped by the addition of GRP 1 and PIP3 TAMRA probe Echelon Inc. Salt Lake City Utah. 100 nM and 5 nM final concentrations respectively. Read with standard cut off filters for the rhodamine fluorophore ex 530 nm em 590 nm in 384 well black low volume Proxiplates PerkinElmer Wellesley Mass. Fluorescence polarization values were plotted as a function of the protein concentration and the ECvalues were obtained by fitting the data to a 4 parameter equation using KaleidaGraph software Synergy software Reading Pa. . This experiment also establishes the appropriate protein concentration to use in subsequent competition experiments with inhibitors.

Inhibitor ICvalues were determined by addition of the 0.04 mg mL p110 alpha PI3K final concentration combined with PIP 10 mM final concentration to wells containing 1 3 serial dilutions of the antagonists in a final concentration of 25 mM ATP Cell Signaling Technology Inc. Danvers Mass. in the polarization buffer. After an incubation time of 30 minutes at room temperature the reactions were stopped by the addition of GRP 1 and PIP3 TAMRA probe Echelon Inc. Salt Lake City Utah. 100 nM and 5 nM final concentrations respectively. Read with standard cut off filters for the rhodamine fluorophore ex 530 nm em 590 nm in 384 well black low volume proxi plates PerkinElmer Wellesley Mass. Fluorescence polarization values were plotted as a function of the antagonist concentration and the ICvalues were obtained by fitting the data to a 4 parameter equation in Assay Explorer software MDL San Ramon Calif. .

Alternatively inhibition of PI3K was determined in a radiometric assay using purified recombinant enzyme and ATP at a concentration of 1 uM. The Formula I compound was serially diluted in 100 DMSO. The kinase reaction was incubated for 1 h at room temperature and the reaction was terminated by the addition of PBS. ICvalues were subsequently determined using sigmoidal dose response curve fit variable slope .

Efficacy of Formula I compounds were measured by a cell proliferation assay employing the following protocol Promega Corp. Technical Bulletin TB288 Mendoza et al 2002 Cancer Res. 62 5485 5488 

1. An aliquot of 100 l of cell culture containing about 10cells PC3 Detroit562 or MDAMB361.1 in medium was deposited in each well of a 384 well opaque walled plate.

5. A volume of CellTiter Glo Reagent equal to the volume of cell culture medium present in each well was added.

Alternatively cells were seeded at optimal density in a 96 well plate and incubated for 4 days in the presence of test compound. Alamar Blue was subsequently added to the assay medium and cells were incubated for 6 h before reading at 544 nm excitation 590 nm emission. ECvalues were calculated using a sigmoidal dose response curve fit.

Caco 2 cells are seeded onto Millipore Multiscreen plates at 1 10cells cm and cultured for 20 days. Assessment of compound permeability is subsequently conducted. The compounds are applied to the apical surface A of cell monolayers and compound permeation into the basolateral B compartment was measured. This is performed in the reverse direction B A to investigate active transport. A permeability coefficient value P for each compound a measure of the rate of permeation of the compound across the membrane is calculated. Compounds are grouped into low P 1.0 10cm s absorption potential based on comparison with control compounds with established human absorption.

For assessment of a compound s ability to undergo active efflux the ratio of basolateral B to apical A transport compared with A to B was determined. Values of B A A B 1.0 indicate the occurrence of active cellular efflux.

Suspensions of cryopreserved human hepatocytes are used. Incubations are performed at compound concentration of 1 mM or 3 M at a cell density of 0.5 10viable cells mL. The final DMSO concentration in the incubation is about 0.25 . Control incubations are also performed in the absence of cells to reveal any non enzymatic degradation. Duplicate samples 5 L are removed from the incubation mixture at 0 5 10 20 40 and 60 minutes control sample at 60 minutes only and added to MeOH containing internal standard 100 L to terminate the reaction. Tolbutamide 7 hydroxycoumarin and testosterone may be used as control compounds. Samples are centrifuged and the supernatants at each time point pooled for analysis by LC MSMS. From a plot of ln peak area ratio parent compound peak area internal standard peak area against time intrinsic clearance CL is calculated as follows CL l min million cells V k where k is the elimination rate constant obtained from the gradient of ln concentration plotted against time V is a volume term derived from the incubation volume and is expressed as uL 10cells.

Formula I compounds may be screened against CYP450 targets 1A2 2C9 2C19 2D6 3A4 at about 10 concentrations in duplicate with a top concentration of about 100 uM. Standard inhibitors furafylline sulfaphenazole tranylcypromine quinidine ketoconazole may be used as controls. Plates may be read using a BMG LabTechnologies PolarStar in fluorescence mode.

Freshly isolated human hepatocytes from a single donor may be cultured for about 48 h prior to addition of Formula I compound at three concentrations and incubated for 72 h. Probe substrates for CYP3A4 and CYP1A2 are added for 30 minutes and 1 h before the end of the incubation. At 72 h cells and media are removed and the extent of metabolism of each probe substrate quantified by LC MS MS. The experiment is controlled by using inducers of the individual P450s incubated at one concentration in triplicate.

Solutions of Formula I compound 5 um 0.5 final DMSO concentration are prepared in buffer and 10 plasma v v in buffer . A 96 well HT dialysis plate is assembled so that each well is divided in two by a semi permeable cellulose membrane. The buffer solution is added to one side of the membrane and the plasma solution to the other side incubations are then conducted at 37 C. over 2 h in triplicate. The cells are subsequently emptied and the solutions for each batch of compounds are combined into two groups plasma free and plasma containing then analysed by LC MSMS using two sets of calibration standards for plasma free 6 points and plasma containing solutions 7 points . The fraction unbound value for the compound is calculated.

Formula I compounds are evaluated for ability to modulate rubidium efflux from HEK 294 cells stably expressing hERG potassium channels using established flux methodology. Cells are prepared in medium containing RbCl plated into 96 well plates and grown overnight to form monolayers. The efflux experiment is initiated by aspirating the media and washing each well with 3 100 L of pre incubation buffer containing low K at room temperature. Following the final aspiration 50 L of working stock 2 compound is added to each well and incubated at room temperature for 10 minutes. 50 L of stimulation buffer containing high K is then added to each well giving the final test compound concentrations. Cell plates are then incubated at room temperature for a further 10 minutes. 80 L of supernatant from each well is then transferred to equivalent wells of a 96 well plate and analysed via atomic emission spectroscopy. The compound is screened as 10 pt duplicate ICcurves n 2 from a top concentration of 100 M.

The foregoing description is considered as illustrative only of the principles of the invention. Further since numerous modifications and changes will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art it is not desired to limit the invention to the exact construction and process shown as described above. Accordingly all suitable modifications and equivalents may be considered to fall within the scope of the invention as defined by the claims that follow.

The words comprise comprising include including and includes when used in this specification and in the following claims are intended to specify the presence of stated features integers components or steps but they do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers components steps or groups thereof.

