---

title: Waveguide with integrated lens
abstract: A sample can be illuminated for analysis using apparatus including a light source, a planar waveguide, and a refractive volume. The light source provides light along a propagation vector. The planar waveguide is oriented such that the propagation vector is perpendicular to the normal vector of the planar waveguide and offset from the planar waveguide in a direction parallel to the normal vector of the planar waveguide. The refractive volume is positioned proximate to the planar waveguide and can optically coupling light provided by the light source to the planar waveguide.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08300993&OS=08300993&RS=08300993
owner: MBio Diagnostics, Inc.
number: 08300993
owner_city: Boulder
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20091112
---
This application claims the priority benefit of U.S. provisional patent application No. 61 156 586 filed Mar. 2 2009 and entitled Waveguide with Integrated Lens the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with government support under contract 70NANB7H7053 awarded by the U.S. Department of Commerce. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention generally relates to waveguides for sample illumination. More specifically the present invention relates to planar waveguides proximate to refractive volumes.

Fluorescently labeled probes provide a convenient method of characterizing the content of biological samples. By tailoring binding chemistry of a fluorescent probe high specificity can be achieved for detection of complex molecules such as RNA DNA proteins and cellular structures. Since fluorophores typically absorb and re emit Stokes shifted radiation regardless of being bound or unbound to a species to be detected the bound and unbound fluorophores must be separated.

One common method to separate the bound fluorophores from the unbound fluorophores relies on spatial localization of the fluorescently labeled species. For example in a sandwich immunoassay a surface is chemically treated to bind a species to be detected to the surface. The fluorescent probes then attach to the species that are bound to the surface. Unbound fluorophores can then be removed from the system with a wash step.

Background fluorescence can be further reduced if the excitation light can be confined to the surface. Total internal reflection fluorescence TIRF is one method of reducing background fluorescence. In general when light propagates from one medium to another a portion of the light will be reflected at the interface. If the light is propagating into a material with a lower index of optical refraction however all the light will be reflected if the angle at which the beam is incident on the surface is greater than the critical angle relative to the surface normal . In the lower index material the light intensity exponentially decays with distance from the surface. This exponentially decaying field known as an evanescent field has a characteristic decay length on the order of 100 nanometers to 1 micrometer for visible light. The light of the evanescent field will therefore only excite fluorophores that are localized at the surface.

In a simplified implementation TIRF is performed with a laser beam reflecting once from the surface. This is the basis of well established TIRF microscopy and other biosensing techniques. By confining the laser beam inside a waveguide however multiple reflections can be realized and larger areas can be illuminated. Several waveguide geometries are possible each having certain tradeoffs.

Single mode planar waveguides also called thin film waveguides or integrated optical waveguides confine light into a small cross sectional area with the thin dimension smaller than the wavelength of propagating light. The advantage of single mode waveguides is that significantly stronger evanescent fields are generated. A disadvantage of single mode waveguides is that for efficient light coupling they typically require a prism or grating with precise alignment tolerances. In addition single mode planar waveguides are expensive to manufacture because the guiding layer is typically a thin film with strict thickness tolerances deposited on a substrate. In contrast a multimode planar waveguide is substantially easier to couple a laser beam to and simpler to construct than single mode planar waveguides. For example a standard 1 millimeter thick microscope slide makes an effective waveguide to which light can be coupled through the edge of the slide. Additionally dimensions for multimode waveguides are compatible with current plastic injection molding techniques.

For a fluorescence based assay system a uniform evanescent field is desired in the detection region. By definition the strength of the evanescent field is uniform along the direction of light propagation for a single mode planar waveguide neglecting scattering losses and absorption inside the waveguide . For a disposable clinical device however cost robustness and ease of use are of similar importance. By adjusting input coupling to a multimode waveguide uniformity and field strength can be optimized.

While each individual mode in a multimode waveguide has a uniform intensity along the direction of propagation a distribution of modes will be excited when coupling to a multimode waveguide this distribution of modes will constructively and destructively interfere on the surface and lead to a spatially varying field strength. When the thickness of the waveguide is much larger than the wavelength of light the mode structure of the waveguide can be neglected and the intensity in the waveguide can be treated as a conventional diffracting beam that totally internally reflects from the two surfaces of the waveguide and interferes with neighboring reflections.

A variation on the coupling scheme is illustrated by the coupling scheme . In the scheme a laser beam focused by a cylindrical lens is incident on the edge of a waveguide with an appropriate angle such that the central ray of the beam inside the waveguide impinges on the surface near the critical angle for TIR to maximize the evanescent field strength. A compromise between field strength and uniformity may be made by the choice of focusing optics. If a nearly collimated beam is used to achieve high field intensity by operating near the critical angle for TIR the beam must make many reflections within the waveguide before the surface intensity becomes sufficiently uniform thus requiring a longer waveguide. If the beam is highly focused however then the surface intensity normalizes in very few reflections but a significant amount of power is contained in rays propagating outside the critical angle and leads to reduced evanescent field strength down the length of the waveguide.

Precise alignment of a cylindrical lens such as the lenses and relative to the input face of a waveguide such as the waveguides and respectively must be made in order to have a laser beam focused on the input face. One proposed solution to this problem is illustrated by the coupling scheme . In the coupling scheme a lens is incorporated with a waveguide as a single optical component made for example by bonding the lens element to the planar waveguide or by molding a single optical component. While this allows the focus of the lens to be precisely distanced from the edge of the waveguide careful alignment of a laser beam relative to the lens of the waveguide must still be made to couple the beam to the waveguide . For applications requiring repeated placement of a waveguide component relative to the light source it is highly desirable for the light coupling to be relatively insensitive to misalignment.

Embodiments of the present invention allow light to be coupled to a planar waveguide providing a strong evanescent field for sample illumination while eliminating or greatly reducing inadvertent misalignment by a user. Embodiments of the present invention further allow facile tuning of the internal propagation angle inside the waveguide providing simple adjustment of evanescent field strength. Embodiments of the present invention also provide apparatus for performing assays involving placement of a fluidic chamber on a planar waveguide in a manner that is insensitive to the optical properties of the chamber.

In a claimed embodiment apparatus for illuminating a sample for analysis is disclosed. The apparatus includes a light source a planar waveguide and a refractive volume. The light source provides light along a propagation vector. The planar waveguide is oriented such that the propagation vector is perpendicular to the normal vector of the planar waveguide and offset from the planar waveguide in a direction parallel to the normal vector of the planar waveguide. The refractive volume which is positioned proximate to the planar waveguide optically couples light provided by the light source to the planar waveguide.

Another claimed embodiment sets forth a method for performing sample analysis. Light is provided from a light source along a propagation vector. A refractive volume positioned proximate to a planar waveguide is illuminated with the light. The waveguide is oriented such that the propagation vector is perpendicular to the normal vector of the planar waveguide and offset from the planar waveguide in a direction parallel to the normal vector of the planar waveguide. The light is then coupled to the planar waveguide via the refractive volume.

Apparatus for performing biological assays is disclosed in yet another claimed embodiment. The apparatus includes a light source a planar waveguide a refractive volume and a detector. The light source provides light along a propagation vector. The planar waveguide has a plurality of specific binding molecules bound to a face thereof. The planar waveguide could further have an array of two or more dissimilar specific binding molecules bound to the face thereof. Additionally the optical axis of the planar waveguide is oriented parallel to the propagation vector and offset from the propagation vector in a direction perpendicular to a face of the planar waveguide. The refractive volume optically couples light provided by the light source to the planar waveguide and is positioned proximate to the planar waveguide. The refractive volume includes at least a section of a plano convex cylindrical lens. The detector is positioned to detect light emitted from a region proximate to the face of the planar waveguide having the plurality of specific binding molecules bound thereto.

Embodiments of the present technology provide for sample illumination such as that involved in fluorescence detection and assay based on evanescent fields using apparatus comprising a waveguide with an integrated lens. The overall configuration of the apparatus may be such that fluorescence emitting molecules bound to a waveguide surface are excited by an evanescent field penetrating into the adjacent solution from a light beam propagated within the waveguide the propagated beam being introduced by an integrally connected lens. The collimated beam of light such as a laser beam may propagate parallel to the waveguide surface such that the system is insensitive to translation of the waveguide. The incident beam may be also appropriately offset from the optical axis of the waveguide such that refraction of the light at the lens surface directs the beam into the waveguide at an angle close to the critical angle for TIR. Additionally a second integrated cylindrical lens may be added to the output end of the waveguide. This may facilitate a second laser being coupled in the opposite direction such as for multi color fluorescence assays.

The apparatus may also allow a fluidic chamber to be bound to the planar waveguide such that the chamber contact with the planar waveguide is outside the optical path of the propagating light eliminating restrictions on optical properties of material comprising the chamber. In some previous configurations fluidic chambers have utilized low index of refraction materials in contact with the planar waveguide with mechanical clamping in order to limit optical losses at the waveguide chamber contact area. By separating the waveguide chamber contact from the optical path traditional bonding methods such as adhesives or plastic welding can be used to attach the chamber to the waveguide. Moreover the fluidic chamber may comprise or be formed in part by a second planar waveguide wherein the fluidic chamber is disposed between two planar waveguides. In such an arrangement light may be coupled to both planar waveguides as well as the volume formed by the fluidic chamber.

It is noteworthy that the fluidic sample chamber may comprise or be formed in part by a second planar waveguide similar to the waveguide such that the fluidic sample chamber is disposed between two planar waveguides. In such a configuration light may be coupled to both planar waveguides as well as the volume formed by the fluidic sample chamber . The principles described herein are similarly applicable to configurations having multiple planar waveguides.

As a result of refraction explained by Snell s law the light beam refracts such that it strikes the top surface of the waveguide at an angle relative to the optical axis of the waveguide . The angle is defined as the internal propagation angle. The vertical distance y between the center of the light beam and the apex of the cylindrical lens is chosen such that is less than the complement of the critical angle allowing total internal reflection to occur. For a given radius R for the curved surface of the lens and index of refraction n for the cylindrical lens the distance y and angle are related by the equation 

Since the light beam has a spatial extent the curved surface of the lens will act to focus the light beam . The radius R of the curved surface of the lens is chosen such that for a given beam diameter of the light beam the range of angles incident on the top surface of the waveguide is appropriate to provide a uniform evanescent field strength within the detection region while remaining outside the critical angle for TIR. It may be desired that the light beam focus on the top surface of the waveguide to allow for the greatest tolerance to misalignment. The total thickness t for the structure comprising the waveguide and lens that leads to a focused beam on the top surface may be given by 

When an appropriate thickness t is used the light beam will focus at a horizontal distance L from the center of the circle defining the curved surface of the lens . L may be related to the previously defined quantities by the equation 

The structure comprising the waveguide and lens may be manufactured in several different ways. One method is to have the entire assembly constructed in plastic by injection molding technology. An alternative method is to fabricate the planar waveguide and lens element separately from similar index materials. The two elements may then be joined permanently by a transparent optical cement optical contacting or temporarily with index matching fluid oil gel.

Geometries such as those described in connection with easily allow the adjustment of the internal propagation angle through a translation rather than a rotation of the incident laser beam. This allows for a less complicated mechanical design to couple the laser to the waveguide. Additionally a new injection molded waveguide is not necessary when it is desired to change the incident angle because the focal point of the lens using the disclosed geometry of is very insensitive to the translation of a laser beam relative to the optical axis of the waveguide . Further a desired change in the incident angle is accomplished without changing the readout instrument allowing variation of cartridge function without physical changes in the instrument. A barcode on the cartridge may be utilized to identify information used to interpret signals from a given cartridge.

To prevent light from leaking from the waveguide after the first reflection from the top surface the cylindrical lens is truncated such that it does not extend beyond the location of the focus. The area defined by the line connecting the apex of the cylindrical lens and the point on the bottom surface opposite the focus see e.g. optical deadzone in will never have light propagate in it that successfully couples to the waveguide. As such the precise shape of the lens in the area designated optical deadzone can comprise any convenient shape provided the lens does not extend beyond the vertical line passing through the focus. For a single injection molded device where minimizing material costs is important removing all plastic in the area labeled optical deadzone may be desirable. If two separate components made through conventional optical manufacturing processes are fabricated a traditional cylindrical lens that has been diced to remove material beyond the focus can be easily manufactured. A material that has low autofluorescence properties may be desirable to minimize background contributions in the signal collection.

Because the cylindrical lens is used in off axis geometry minor optical aberrations at the focus may be exhibited if the curved surface is circular. While a circular profile functionally works the use of an aspheric surface may be employed to extend the range of the vertical position of the incident beam for which the beam will be coupled to the planar waveguide allowing a larger range of adjustment of the angle . The appropriate deviation from a circular profile can be calculated with optical ray tracing programs familiar to those skilled in the art.

The large area of the top surface of the waveguide before the focus may allow for a sample chamber to be sealed. The gasket sealing surface may be absent from the optical path. Therefore a larger range of gasket materials may be possible that only need to be evaluated for their chemical biological compatibility and not their optical properties. For example an adhesive backed spacer can be utilized to form a sealed flowcell without a complicated clamping mechanism. Multiple flow cells can also be incorporated into a single biosensor by utilizing a gasket with multiple channels.

A lid attached to the gasket completes the flow cell. Fluid samples can be introduced through orifices in the lid and flow through the channels allowing the fluid to interact with the top waveguide surface. Fluid reservoirs exterior to the flow channel can also be included to allow the introduction of fluids into the flow channel and an overflow reservoir at the outlet port of the flow channel to contain the fluid after it has passed through the flow channel. With plastic components the gasket can be optionally eliminated by molding the channels into one of the plastic components and joining the two plastic components directly with methods known to those skilled in the art e.g. laser or ultrasonic welding .

The evanescent field created by the light within the waveguide can excite fluorophores that have attached to the top surface of the waveguide . As the fluorophores relax and emit frequency shifted radiation the emitted light may be captured by a lens or series of lenses e.g. the collection optics to transfer an image of the surface to a plane that is imaged by a light capturing device e.g. the imaging device such as a CCD or CMOS sensor. An optical filter can also be placed between the waveguide surface and the imaging device to eliminate scattered incident light that has not been frequency shifted by the captured fluorophores.

In step light is provided from a light source along a propagation vector. The light source can include a laser or any other source of collimated or near collimated light.

In step a refractive volume is illuminated with the light. The refractive volume is positioned proximate to and may be integrated with a planar waveguide. In exemplary embodiments the refractive volume may include at least a section of a plano convex cylindrical lens wherein the longitudinal axis of the refractive volume is oriented perpendicular to the optical axis and the normal vector of the planar waveguide.

In step the light is coupled to the planar waveguide via the refractive volume. The waveguide is oriented such that the propagation vector is perpendicular to the normal vector of the planar waveguide and offset from the planar waveguide in a direction parallel to the normal vector of the planar waveguide.

In optional step the optical coupling of the light provided by the light source to the planar waveguide is tuned by translating the light source in a direction parallel to the normal vector of the planar waveguide.

In step consistent optical coupling of the light provided by the light source to the planar waveguide is maintained while translating the light source parallel to the optical axis of the planar waveguide.

In step a biological sample is positioned in a reservoir formed at least in part by a face of the planar waveguide.

In step light emitted from a region proximate to a face of the planar waveguide is detected. In some embodiments a detector is positioned to detect light emitted from a region proximate to the face of the planar waveguide having a plurality of capture molecules bound thereto.

The present invention has been described above with reference to exemplary embodiments. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications may be made and other embodiments can be used without departing from the broader scope of the invention. Therefore these and other variations upon the exemplary embodiments are intended to be covered by the present invention.

