---

title: Neuromorphic computer
abstract: A neuromorphic computing device utilizing electronics to perform the function of neurons and synaptic connections. The invention provides variable resistance circuits to represent interconnection strength between neurons and a positive and negative output circuit to represent excitatory and inhibitory responses, respectively. The invention provides advantages over software-based neuromorphic computing methods.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08275728&OS=08275728&RS=08275728
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Air Force
number: 08275728
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20091105
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalty thereon.

This invention relates generally to the field of computer architectures modeled on the function of the brain. More specifically the present invention relates to a computer architecture using modem electronics to perform the function of neurons and synaptic connections.

The amazing computing power of the brain originates thanks to its highly parallelized interconnectivity amongst neurons through synaptic connections. The synaptic connection plays an important role in brain activity as these connections can be strengthened or weakened as the brain learns and knowledge is stored within the system 2 Neuron behavior has been characterized as an adding system that provides an output based on the sum of all inputs or synapse outputs and its connectivity to other neurons 1 . In addition the amount of information or knowledge a neuromorphic computer can retain depends on the number neurons and synaptic connections within the system. For example the brain of an ant is said to contain approximately 300 000 neurons 3 .

The natural ability of the brain to perform a high number of complex functions in parallel that to date are unmatched by the fastest most powerful supercomputers represents a great technological engineering challenge. Neuromorphic computers promise to provide artificial machines the ability to perform complex functions by mimicking the brain s engineering. Software based implementations of neuromorphic computing have demonstrated the feasibility of mimicking brain functionality 1 . However software based implementations of neuromorphic computing require high performance computers and super computers that in turn make usage of such applications in everyday life impractical specially within mobile and or low cost systems.

What is lacking therefore is the development of hardware based neuromorphic computer that will enable a technological breakthrough with the implementation of brain functionality within systems that are built based on the engineering principles of the brain. Such a hardware based neuromorphic computer would require a neuromorphic hardware architecture that mimics the brain s synaptic and neuron functionality employing electronic devices to represent synaptic and neuron characteristic behavior. Given the large number of neurons and synaptic connections approximately 1 000 synaptic connections per neuron required to design systems capable of mimicking practical brain functionality such as image recognition it is important for the electronic devices to be small in order to be fabricated within a small physical area as computer microprocessors are fabricated today.

It is an object of the present invention to provide an apparatus that overcomes the limitations of software based methods to perform human brain like computing functions.

It is another object of the present invention then to provide an electronic means to perform excitatory and inhibitory responses.

It is another object of the present invention to provide an apparatus that performs the functions of neurons and synaptic connections through electronic means.

It is a further object of the present invention to provide an electronic means for performing the functions of neurons and synaptic connections which is amenable to high density fabrication.

Briefly stated the present invention provides an apparatus for human brain like i.e. neuromorphic computing utilizing electronics to perform the function of neurons and synaptic connections. The invention provides variable resistance circuits to represent interconnection strength between neurons and a positive and negative output circuit to represent excitatory and inhibitory responses respectively. This approach has definite advantages over software based neuromorphic computing methods.

The above and other objects features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following description read in conjunction with the accompanying drawings in which like reference numerals designate the same elements.

The basic building block of the neuromorphic computer is the synapse circuit. A synapse circuit requires 1. a variable resistance circuit to represent the interconnection strength between neurons and 2. a positive negative output circuit to represent excitatory and inhibitory responses.

In the present invention a variable resistor is obtained by biasing an n channel field effect transistor nfet device in such a way that it operates within the linear region. This functionality can also be achieved with a memristor 4 device. In the linear or Ohmic mode region the drain source current of the nfet behavior can be modeled as 5 

Referring to depicts the nfet channel conductance for the same biasing voltage conditions outlined in . From the figure we can observe that the nfet device displays a range of conductance that is proportional to the gate drain and source potential biases.

Referring to depicts how the variable resistive equivalent circuit element can be achieved with a MOSFET or memristor devices. also depicts the electrical equivalent diagram for a MOSFET device operated within the linear region and a memristor device to the electrical symbol of a variable resistor . This variable conductance or its inverse the resistance can be used to control the connection strength between synapses and neuron circuitry.

Referring to the present invention re create the positive and negative excitatory and inhibitory potential outputs of a synaptic system by employing a common CMOS inverter circuit operating along its transition region. A pfet device distinguished by the black notch on its gate is connected to an nfet device in series. Both devices receive the same input and based on the input potential the inverter circuit will output either Vmax or Vmin. For example if the input potential is 0 volts the nfet device will be in the off state meaning the input potential is below its threshold voltage and no conducting channel is formed under the gate. On the other hand at 0 volts the pfet device is switched on given that its threshold potential is negative. Therefore for a zero input voltage the output of the inverter is Vmax as Vout will be shorted to Vmax through the channel under the gate for the pfet device .

The present invention needs to operate the inverter circuit along its transition region to achieve positive Vmax and negative Vmin potential outputs that will resemble post synaptic behavior. Since the inverter circuit of works in saturation mode meaning that Vmax and Vmin VDS are both greater in magnitude than VGS Vth transistor current saturation equations describe its transition characteristics. For an nfet device ignoring channel length modulation the drain current is modeled as for the nfet as 4 for the pfet reverse current flow direction 

In the present invention the synaptic system employs the variable resistor and inverter circuit elements described previously. Referring to describes the complete synaptic system by way of a circuit representation of a synapse using a transistor and alternately a memristor . The simplified circuit element form will be employed when designing the neuromorphic network. From one can observe that the output of the synaptic system is a function of the Vm potential that will either strengthen weaken or completely cut off the connection between the synapse input and the CMOS inverting circuit see also operating within its transition bias point range.

The synapse output SO can be modeled as SO SI 6 Where f represents the transfer function of the CMOS inverter i.e. described in Eqn. 5 I Vm is current across the transistor channel or transistor channel operating in the linear region as a variable resistance and R is a resistor used to reset the synapse. For example for synaptic inputs between 0 and 1 V as shown in Eqn. 6 will range from 2 to 2 V approximately as a function of the resistive element R Vm . Equations 5 and 6 can be combined to obtain 

Referring to and concurrently the implementation of the neuron functionality in the present invention is performed with an adding node and or a single transistor. depicts multiple synaptic outputs converging at multiple floating adding nodes and their combined response is fed to the next neuron synaptic layer of the neuromorphic computing architecture. The adding node is the physical connection where all post synaptic outputs converge. As the synaptic outputs converge they will increase or decrease the potential at the floating neuron adding node . As depicted in multiple synaptic outputs converge at the adding neuron where their relative contribution the adding of all post synaptic output potentials will cause the single MOSFET neuron to fire as long at the overall synaptic contribution is above its threshold potential. The neuron output Vo will be fed to the next synaptic layer of the neuromorphic computing architecture. Thus the resulting added potential will become the input to the following synaptic layer. In addition if the neuron adding node where connected to the gate of an nfet transistor and if the total combined potential at the adding node is greater than the threshold voltage Vth of the MOSFET transistor thy output of the neuron will be Vo Vn. Otherwise the neuron won t have an output the neuron won t fire as shown in .

Referring to depicts an example of a neuromorphic architecture implementation with floating adding neurons. Successive layers of synapse circuits are functionally depicted as being arranged horizontally from left to right. The number of synapse circuits in each successive layer decreases by a factor of two owing to the effect of floating adding neurons. Computer simulations based on the physical principles described above demonstrate the feasibility of the neuromorphic architectures described herein. One skilled in the art would appreciate that variations of neuromorphic architectures can be constructed employing transistors memristors and inverter circuits coupled to floating node neurons or thresholding neurons to perform computations as described previously. depicts another example of a neuromorphic implementation that demonstrates how a computing architecture can be implemented with floating node and thresholding neurons.

Having described preferred embodiments of the invention with reference to the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that the invention is not limited to those precise embodiments and that various changes and modifications may be effected therein by one skilled in the art without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention as defined in the appended claims.

