---

title: Methods and systems for configuring mailing equipment
abstract: A computer receives two input documents, including a carrier product description file and a document that describes attributes of a type of mailing equipment. The computer extracts information from the documents and generates a provisioning document based at least in part on the extracted information. The provisioning document is suitable for controlling a piece of mailing equipment which belongs to the particular type of mailing equipment, in such a manner that the piece of mailing equipment generates mail pieces in compliance with the carrier product description file. The provisioning document includes a script for controlling operation of the piece of mailing equipment and data to be read by the piece of mailing equipment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08244647&OS=08244647&RS=08244647
owner: Pitney Bowes Inc.
number: 08244647
owner_city: Stamford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20091215
---
The invention disclosed herein relates generally to mailing equipment and more particularly to configuring mailing equipment by using machine readable files.

The mailers typically use mailing equipment block which is manufactured and distributed by mailing equipment manufacturers block . Third party service providers block may provide services related to dissemination of postal rate information management of carrier product offering information etc.

Typically items of mailing equipment are microprocessor based such that operation of the mailing equipment is controlled by software and or firmware that programs the embedded microprocessor. It is customary for computer programmers hired or retained by the equipment manufacturer to write the software firmware to control the mailing equipment so that it produces mail pieces that are in compliance with a service offering of a mail carrying agency. In some cases the mailing equipment is programmed to offer the user a choice of various classes of service. The mailing equipment responds to the user s selection of a particular class of service option by generating the mail piece s and any required accompanying document in accordance with the selected class of service under control of an application program previously written by the equipment manufacturer and previously installed in the mailing equipment to comply with the requirements of the selected class of service. It is often the case that the software in question is installed in the mailing equipment before the mailing equipment is shipped to the customer or upon installation of the mailing equipment at the mailer s location.

The Universal Postal Union UPU is an international body that coordinates policies among member national postal authorities. The UPU has proposed EPPML Extensible Postal Product Model and Language as an XML based standard for describing mail based service offerings by postal authorities. One purpose of EPPML is to reduce the effective lead time required for adoption by mailers of new or revised services offered by postal authorities. However even with EPPML conventional practices by mailing equipment manufacturers are likely to entail a considerable lapse of time from introduction of a new service offering to actual use by mailers. This is because the equipment manufacturers may need to direct its programming staff or contractors to write new software or revise existing software for its mailing equipment. It is typically a matter of at least a few months for an equipment manufacturer to generate new software suitable for configuring an installed base of equipment or newly manufactured equipment to operate in compliance with a new postal service offering. Thus new service offerings by postal authorities are as a practical matter subject to significant delays in adoption owing to lead times for equipment software updates.

According to an aspect of the invention a method includes a computer receiving a first input document which is a carrier product description file generated by a letter or parcel carrier. The computer also receives a second input document which describes attributes of a type of mailing equipment. Further the computer extracts information from the first input document and from the second input document and generates a provisioning document based at least in part on the information extracted from the first input document and the second input document. The provisioning document includes data and instructions for preparing a piece of mailing equipment which belongs to the above mentioned type of mailing equipment such that the piece of mailing equipment becomes capable of generating mailpieces in compliance with the carrier product description file. Also the provisioning document may include a script or binary code plugin for controlling the operation of the piece of mailing equipment at the time of mailpiece generation.

The first input document may be expressed in accordance with EPPML. The computer may generate the provisioning document based in part on a mailer s intended business practices and or based in part on input received from a human operator. The provisioning document may define behavior for the piece of mailing equipment in connection with the piece of mailing equipment printing information on mail pieces and or in connection with the piece of mailing equipment printing a document to accompany a group of mail pieces generated by the pieces of mailing equipment. The provisioning document may further define behavior of the piece of mailing equipment in connection with sending messages to the carrier performing mail piece rating calculations and or providing accounting reports.

According to another aspect of the invention an apparatus which includes a processor and a memory operates in accordance with program instructions stored in the memory to perform a process according to the aspects of the invention described in the two preceding paragraphs.

According to still another aspect of the invention a method includes a first computer receiving a first input document which is a carrier product description file generated by a letter or parcel carrier. The first computer also receives a second input document which describes attributes of a class of mailing equipment. Further the first computer extracts information from the first input document and from the second input document and generates a class provisioning document based at least in part on the information extracted from the first input document and the second input document. The method also includes a second computer receiving the first input document the second input document the class provisioning document and a third input document. The third input document describes attributes of a type of mailing equipment that is a subset of the class of mailing equipment. The second computer generates a type provisioning document based at least in part on the third input document and the class provisioning document. The method further includes a third computer receiving the first input document the second input document the type provisioning document and the third input document. The third computer also receives fourth input the fourth input relating to requirements for operating by a single mailer one or more pieces of mailing equipment of the aforementioned type of mailing equipment. In certain illustrative embodiments the third computer also receives a fifth input wherein the fifth input describes attributes of an on site customization of mailing equipment that is a subset of the type of mailing equipment. Still further the third computer generates a mailer provisioning document based at least in part on the fourth and or fifth input and the type provisioning document. The mailer provisioning document includes data and instructions for preparing at least one piece of mailing equipment which belongs to the above mentioned type of mailing equipment such that the at least one piece of mailing equipment becomes capable of generating mailpieces in compliance with the carrier product description file. Also the mailer provisioning document may include a script or binary code plugin for controlling the operation of the at least one piece of mailing equipment at the time of mailpiece generation.

With machine based generation of provisioning documents in accordance with the invention the provisioning documents may be generated shortly after issuance of new carrier product offerings and then promptly downloaded to an installed base of mailing equipment so that there may be significant acceleration of the process for mailer adoption of new or modified service offerings from mail carrying agencies. Provisioning documents may also be employed in connection with updating mailing equipment to comply with changes in carrier product offerings without requiring the resident software to be revised.

Therefore it should now be apparent that the invention substantially achieves all the above aspects and advantages. Additional aspects and advantages of the invention will be set forth in the description that follows and in part will be obvious from the description or may be learned by practice of the invention. Various features and embodiments are further described in the following figures description and claims.

In accordance with aspects of the present invention a computer parses input files including a document that describes a product offering e.g. a class of service from a mail carrying agency e.g. a postal authority and a document that describes attributes e.g. operating capabilities of a target piece of mailing equipment. Other inputs may include manual input from a human operator and a file which defines business rules established for the operation of the target piece of mailing equipment. Based on these inputs the computer generates a provisioning document which includes one or more scripts and data that is readable by the target piece of mailing equipment. The provisioning document is input into the target piece of mailing equipment to configure the piece of mailing equipment to operate such as to produce one or more mail pieces in compliance with the carrier product offering

The CPDF may have been issued in EPPML by a mail carrying agency as a description of a new service offering from the mail carrying agency. However the CPDF need not necessarily be in EPPML. The function of the CPDF is to provide a description in a structured format of the service offering. The CPDF may begin with a document header and may next indicate a period of time for which the service offering will be in effect. Identifying information for the product service offering may follow and then a webpage address for a webpage which sets forth the terms and agreements that are applicable to the product service offering.

In the next section of the CPDF operational requirements for the product service offering may be set forth. These requirements may indicate what types sizes of mail pieces qualify for the service offering. These requirements may for example specify physical dimensional constraints that apply. Weight limitations may also be set forth.

The CPDF may further set forth operation requirements concerning information that is required to be printed on the subject mail pieces. Example information requirements may for example include a mailing permit number and the date on which the mailing is being produced. In addition an image such as an indicia may also be required and dimensions for the image may be defined. Further the CPDF may specify a particular type of ink for printing the required information and may also define the required locations on the mail piece for the printed information. The CPDF may also prescribe electronic delivery of information about a mail piece or job from the mailer to the carrier.

The CPDF may also specify other mail piece attributes including the recipient address with requirements for location of the address information as well as requirements for printing font and line spacing.

After the operational requirements the CPDF may set forth offering constraints for the service offering may be set forth including applicable actions and rules. The actions and rules may for example set forth steps that the mailer must perform to qualify for participation in the service offering and actions that will be performed by the mail carrying agency as a result of aspects of the service offering. A further portion of the CPDF may relate to rating establishment of postal charges for the service offering. The rating section of the CPDF may provide a webpage address for accessing a webpage that contains the relevant rating schedule. Another section in the CPDF may relate to requirements for mailers to provide evidence that postage has been paid for a mailing. The CPDF may further include a reference to a lexicon of applicable terms and with a human readable comment section which is blank in this example document .

The MSC document may also be in a structured format suitable for parsing by the provisioning document generation function device . The MSC document may describe the capabilities and attributes of a particular type of mailing equipment in such a manner that the provisioning document generation function device is able to map the product offering requirements set forth in the CPDF into what the mailing equipment is able to do. After beginning with a suitable header which may for example identify the type of mailing equipment described in the MSC document the document may next provide a description of hardware aspects of the mailing equipment including e.g. an identification of the main computer processor component CPU and its operating rate along with the amount of memory space available. Next in the MSC document there may be a description of the resident software including identification of the operating system the runtime portion of the software system and installed application programs.

The MSC may also contain descriptive information relative to any postal revenue security component in the target piece of mailing equipment.

In addition to the description of the IT related aspects of the mailing equipment the MSC document may also describe physically active components of the mailing equipment including for example operating capabilities of a paper stock e.g. envelope feeder component. For example the portion which describes the feeder may specify maximum and or minimum length height and width constraints for the envelopes that the feeder is able to handle. Other operating constraints such as the maximum throughput items per minute may also be indicated in this section of the MSC document .

A subsequent section of the MSC document may describe an output component of the mailing equipment such as a secure printer that operates to apply franking indicia on mail pieces. Again operational constraints for the output device may be set forth including dimension ranges of envelopes that the output device is able to handle throughput rates etc. This section may also contain information about firmware and or software that drives the printing aspects of the output device.

Still a further section of the MSC document may set forth data communication capabilities of the mailing equipment.

In some cases only the CPDF and the MSC document will be needed as inputs to the provisioning document generation function device . However in other cases the information available via these two documents may be and or may need to be supplemented with input entered by a human operator and or with input indicative of policy choices rules established by the mailer which operates the target piece of mailing equipment. These possibilities are reflected by blocks and in .

Based on the inputs described above the provisioning document generation function device generates as an output a provisioning document indicated at in . The provisioning document may then be supplied to and read by the target piece of mailing equipment block to configure the target piece of mailing equipment to produce mail pieces mailings in accordance with the service offering described by the CPDF . As discussed below the piece of mailing equipment may be microprocessor based and may be programmed with a provisioning document application software tool for reading and interpreting the provisioning document and controlling the mailing equipment in accordance with the provisioning document. Details of a process for generating the provisioning document will be described below in connection with . The Appendix hereto is a simplified example of the provisioning document .

Referring to section of the Appendix the provisioning document may begin with a header which may include for example the name of a carrier service offering and or a mail generation application to be implemented with the provisioning document . Thereafter the provisioning document may incorporate and or reference Terms and Agreements applicable to the service offering as included and or referenced in the CPDF .

The next portion of the provisioning document may indicate the input set for the provisioning document i.e. may specify the particular CPDF and the particular MSC document used to generate the provisioning document . The provisioning document may also identify by model number the target piece of mailing equipment.

The provisioning document may next set forth requirements for compliance with the service offering including e.g. prerequisites or post processing requirements for the service offering. The requirements portion may also contain references to software that is to be accessed and imported to implement features of the provisioning document . Still further the requirements portion may include instructions to the mailing equipment operator to attach any needed hardware accessory e.g. a certain type of print head to load any necessary supply e.g. a certain type of ink and to provide envelopes printing stock or the like as necessary for the desired mailing generation operation.

Thereafter the provisioning document may contain a series of scripts. As used herein and the appended claims the term script refers to machine readable code that is interpreted at runtime to control the mailing equipment processor to result in desired behavior by the mailing equipment. The series of scripts may for example include a script for a set up operation of the piece of mailing equipment with respect to the feeder component of the piece of mailing equipment. Another script may be for causing the piece of mailing equipment to perform a job set up function including e.g. any necessary prompts interactions with respect to a human operator of the piece of mailing equipment . Still another script may be for causing the piece of mailing equipment to execute the mailing job. The term script also includes a binary code plugin that is executable at runtime without requiring interpretation or compiling.

In some embodiments the set up script may cause establishment of persistent data states in a dataspace that is also accessible during the execution of the mailing job. In some embodiments one or more of the scripts may include rating components that handle calculation or other determination of charges applicable to the mail pieces and payment and or evidencing of payment of the charges. The rating components may access external rating resources including resources available via the carrier s website.

In some embodiments at least some of the scripts may contain image generation and image location components for producing images to be printed on the mail pieces during execution of the mailing job.

As depicted the provisioning document generation computer includes a computer processor operatively coupled to a communication device a storage device one or more input devices and one or more output devices .

Communication device may be used to facilitate communication with for example other devices such as target pieces of mailing equipment and or other computers which are not shown and which may provide one or more of the inputs indicated in . The input device s may comprise for example a keyboard a keypad a mouse or other pointing device a microphone knob or a switch an infra red IR port a docking station and or a touch screen. The input device s may be used for example to enter information. Output device s may comprise for example a display e.g. a display screen a speaker and or a printer.

Continuing to refer to storage device may comprise any appropriate information storage device including combinations of magnetic storage devices e.g. magnetic tape and hard disk drives optical storage devices and or semiconductor memory devices such as Random Access Memory RAM devices and Read Only Memory ROM devices. At least some of these devices may be considered computer readable storage media or may include such media.

In some embodiments the hardware aspects of the provisioning document generation computer may be entirely conventional.

Storage device stores one or more programs or portions of programs at least some of which being indicated by blocks for controlling processor . Processor performs instructions of the programs and thereby operates in accordance with the present invention. In some embodiments the programs may include a program or program module that programs the provisioning document generation computer to engage in data communications with other devices.

Continuing to refer to the storage device may also store a provisioning document generation software tool . Functionality embodied in the provisioning document generation software tool will be described below in connection with .

There may also be stored in the storage device other software such as one or more conventional operating systems device drivers other application programs for performing other functions etc.

Still further the storage device may store various databases block that the provisioning document generation computer employs in connection with its operations.

Following block in is a decision block . At decision block the provisioning document generation computer determines whether the CPDF is complete in its description of the carrier service offering and whether the carrier service offering is by its terms currently available for adoption by mailers. If either is not the case then the process of advances from decision block to block . At block the provisioning document generation process is terminated and the user is informed that the provisioning document will not be generated. Alternatively however in some embodiments the provisioning document generation computer may operate to generate partial provisioning documents with respect to incomplete CPDFs and or may generate provisioning documents for service offerings that are not yet available for adoption. 

If the CPDF is complete and the service offering is currently available for adoption then the process of advances from decision block to block . At block the provisioning document generation computer creates an empty version or shell of the provisioning document. Then at the provisioning document generation computer imports the terms and agreements portion of the CPDF into the provisioning document. Next at the provisioning document generation computer fills in the product name and expiration date portions of the provisioning document. For example this may be done by importing the corresponding portions of the CPDF. Alternatively however the provisioning document generation computer may query a user of the provisioning document generation computer as to whether the user wishes to modify the product name and or expiration date. If so the provisioning document generation computer may receive user input regarding such modification and may modify the provisioning document accordingly.

Block follows block . At block the provisioning document generation computer takes from the CPDF and MSC documents the information therein which identifies those documents and writes that information into the portion of the provisioning document which identifies its source documents.

Following block is block . Block is illustrated in more detail in and is generally concerned with creating the body of the provisioning document including parsing the CPDF document to determine the requirements for the carrier product and parsing the MSC document to determine the capabilities of the target mailing equipment.

Turning then to and its more detailed representation of block at the provisioning document generation computer extracts from the CPDF the physical constraints requirements for generating mail pieces in compliance with the carrier service offering. Concomitantly at the provisioning document generation computer extracts from the MSC document the relevant capabilities of the target mailing equipment relative to handling mail pieces. In connection with decision block the provisioning document generation computer compares the equipment capabilities with the service offering requirements to determine whether the target mailing equipment has the capabilities needed to produce mail pieces in compliance with the service offering. If such is not the case then block follows decision block . At block the provisioning document generation computer terminates preparation of the provisioning document and informs the user that the provisioning document will not be completed. However in accordance with some embodiments if the target piece of mailing equipment is able to comply with a viable subset of a carrier s product offering then generation of the provisioning document may proceed to allow the target piece of mailing equipment to operate in accordance with a restricted version of the product offering. 

If the provisioning document generation computer determines at decision block that the target mailing equipment has the necessary capabilities for the service offering then block follows decision block . At block the provisioning document generation computer builds an image and or image generation component as illustrated in more detail in .

Turning then to and its more detailed representation of block at the provisioning document generation computer extracts from the CPDF the informational requirements for the service offering. For each informational requirement the provisioning document generation computer determines at decision block whether the requirement in question calls for printing of information on the mail piece. If so then decision block follows decision block .

At decision block the provisioning document generation computer determines from information extracted from the MSC document whether the target mailing equipment has the capability for printing the required information on the mail piece. If such is the case then block follows decision block . At block the provisioning document generation computer interacts with a user of the provisioning document generation computer to define one or more images and or one or more sources for the information to be printed on the mail piece. The interaction may for example be facilitated by a graphical user interface in a manner illustrated in . For example the provisioning document generation computer may present the screen display shown in which includes a representation of a postage indicia defined as a mail piece informational requirement by the CPDF document. In some cases the representation may also reflect limits in the capabilities of the mailing equipment as indicated by the MSC document. For example the CPDF may allow the indicia to be up to 1.25 inches high whereas the capabilities of the target mailing equipment only allow printing of an indicia of up to 1.0 inch in height. The screen display of may allow the user of the provisioning document generation computer to link an externally defined image to fill a graphic field reference numeral in the indicia . Further the screen display of may allow the user of the provisioning document generation computer to link a respective data source to each other field reference numerals in the indicia . For example by actuating the Assign Data button shown at in the user may cause the provisioning document generation computer to provide the screen display shown in . In the latter display a pop up window allows the user to select data sources to be linked to the fields not visible in .

Referring again to once the user has linked externally designed images and or data sources to an image format the process advances from to . At the provisioning document generation computer writes into the relevant section of the provisioning documents the requirements for accessing an externally supplied image and or external data sources. The process then advances from block to decision block . At the provisioning document generation computer determines whether there is at least one more informational requirement in the CPDF which has not yet been satisfied in the provisioning document. If there are more informational requirements then the process of loops back to block . Otherwise the execution of block is complete as indicated at .

Considering again decision block if it is determined at that decision block that the target mailing system does not have the capability of printing the required information on the mail piece then the process of advances from decision block to block . At block the provisioning document generation computer inserts into the provisioning document an indication that it is required to have the information printed on the mail piece by a device that is external to the mailing equipment. Then from the process advances to decision block .

Considering again decision block if it is determined at that decision block that the currently considered informational requirement does not require printing on the mail piece then the process advances from decision block directly to decision block .

Referring again to the process illustrated therein also includes blocks which may be performed after block . In blocks the provisioning document generation computer generates the various scripts which comprise portions of the provisioning documents. These scripts were mentioned in the above discussion of the provisioning document and may include scripts for configuring input or output devices i.e. devices for physically handling items to be processed in the mailing equipment a mailing job set up script and a mailing job execution script. Examples of such scripts are contained in the Appendix as discussed above. In some embodiments and or in some situations the scripts are entirely generated by automatic operation of the provisioning document generation computer . In other embodiment or situations the scripts at least partially reflect input provided by an operator of the provisioning document generation computer .

The process of also includes a block at which the provisioning document generation computer creates other portions of the provisioning document including for example sections of the provisioning document that relate to rating e.g. postage charges applicable to the mail pieces . Rating may involve determining the rate price to apply to each mail piece for charges payable to the carrier. The rates information may be embedded in the provisioning document or accessible via an external service. In the former case the provisioning document may instruct the mailing equipment to modify internal rate tables and or processes for rate calculation. In the latter case the provisioning document may provide information to the mailing equipment on how to connect to the rating service and what protocol to use in requesting rate information. Still other sections of the provisioning document may relate to mail piece accounting including reporting accounting information to the mailer. Other sections may relate to data reporting and collection what how and where to access data associated with the carrier product offering data reporting and or publishing instructions on publishing information during usage of the product offering and payment and security payment of carrier s charges and related security features . Still another section may relate to rules relating to usage of the product offering. These rules may for example relate to eligibility for using the product offering rather than rules governing production of compliant mail pieces. The provisioning document may further include information relating to rules established by the mailer relating to its use of the product offering. Such rules may for example relate to weight breaks to be applied in choosing carriers account balances or rules relating to a particular service. Also the provisioning document may reflect rules established by the equipment manufacturer.

In some embodiments the provisioning document as provided to the target piece of mailing equipment may be generated in stages. For example initially a provisioning document that is intended for a class of mailing equipment e.g. for a family of related models of mailing equipment may be generated subject to being completed in later stages. In the next stage using the class provisioning document a type provisioning document may be generated that is intended for a certain type of mailing equipment e.g. for pieces of mailing equipment that belong to a particular model . The type provisioning document may then be completed in a final stage to produce a provisioning document suitable for use in a particular installation e.g. by a certain mailer mailing entity .

The class provisioning document is an input to and is received by a second stage provisioning document generation function device . The second stage provisioning document generation function device may receive other inputs block which may be similar to the inputs for the first stage provisioning document generation function device . However the other inputs for the second stage provisioning document generation function device may include a supplemental MSC that describes attributes of a particular model type of mailing equipment within the class of mailing equipment described by the MSC document . In some cases for example the second stage process may occur upon introduction of a new model of mailing equipment within an existing class or family of mailing equipment. Based on the class provisioning document and the other inputs the second stage provisioning document generation function device further populates and or revises the class provisioning document to generate the type provisioning document represented by block .

The type provisioning document is an input to and is received by a third stage provisioning document generation function device . The third stage provisioning document generation function device may receive other inputs block such as a business rules document and or human input both of which may be pertinent to desired requirements for operation of the target mailing equipment at a particular installation or mailer. In some cases for example the third stage process may occur prior to delivering the target mailing machine to a particular mailer customer. Based on the type provisioning document and the other inputs the third stage provisioning document generation function device further populates and or revises the type provisioning document to generate a mailer site specific provisioning document referred to as a mailer provisioning document . The mailer provisioning document may be similar to the document attached hereto as Appendix B and may be supplied to and read by the target piece of mailing equipment not shown in to configure the target piece of mailing equipment to produce mail pieces mailings in accordance with the service offering described by the CPDF .

A multi stage process for generating a provisioning document may include in some embodiments more than three stages.

In some embodiments each of the first second and third stages of the provisioning document generation process illustrated in may be performed by a different respective general purpose computer which is programmed for that purpose. Each computer may be conventional in its hardware aspects and may have the same hardware components and architecture as described above in connection with .

Up to this point this disclosure has been primarily concerned with generation of a provisioning document for controlling operation of a piece of mailing equipment thereby configuring the piece of mailing equipment to operate in compliance with the requirements of a service offering provided by a mail carrying agency. In this regard there has been described a provisioning document generation software tool which programs a computer to generate the provisioning document based on certain inputs. In at least some embodiments it may also be desirable to program the mailing equipment with a provisioning document application software tool which enables the mailing equipment to read interpret and operate in accordance with provisioning documents supplied to the mailing equipment. For example the provisioning document application software tool may include a driver component and an adapter component. The driver component may interpret the provisioning document so as to extract therefrom data and or scripts contained in the provisioning document. The adapter component may contain programming required to adapt the data and or scripts for application in the particular mailing machine in question. The provisioning document application software tool may also include a user level API application programming interface and connection API. The user level API may expose the mailer to the provisioning document creation system and may include methods for initializing the mailing equipment querying whether the mailing equipment can support a given product offering querying the current state of the mailing equipment to determine which products the mailing equipment is prepared for and which of the capabilities have been enabled for the given product using the provisioning document to prepare the mailing equipment removing the product from the mailing equipment asking what manual tasks need to be done prior to running a job e.g. changing ink and creating and launching mailing jobs. The connection API may connect to the actual hardware and or control for the mailing equipment including a provision method to pass the provisioning document as an argument a job set up method and an job execution method.

Activities described herein as being performed by a letter or parcel carrier may instead be performed by another entity acting on behalf of the letter or parcel carrier. The term letter or parcel carrier as used herein and in the appended claims should be understood to include another entity acting on behalf of a letter or parcel carrier.

Although the above description and accompanying drawings suggest an order in which process steps may be performed the suggested order of steps is not required and rather may be varied in any manner that is practicable.

As used herein and in the appended claims the term provisioning refers to enabling a piece of mailing equipment to process a mail piece in compliance with a requirement set forth in a carrier product description file.

As used herein and in the appended claims the term letter or parcel carrier is synonymous with mail carrying agency as defined above.

The words comprise comprises comprising include including and includes when used in this specification and in the following claims are intended to specify the presence of stated features elements integers components or steps but they do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features elements integers components steps or groups thereof.

A number of embodiments of the present invention have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Other variations relating to implementation of the functions described herein can also be implemented. Accordingly other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.

