---

title: Bushing for torque load transfer attachment hardware
abstract: A bushing for assembling an exhaust duct liner with an exhaust duct in a gas turbine engine comprises a body, a bushing opening and a first tab. The body is insertable into a duct opening in an exhaust duct. The bushing opening extends through the body to receive a shaft of a liner fastener. The first tab protrudes from the body to extend into an interior of the duct to prevent rotation of a head of the liner fastener.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08661835&OS=08661835&RS=08661835
owner: United Technologies Corporation
number: 08661835
owner_city: Hartford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20091228
---
This application claims priority as a divisional application under 35 U.S.C. 121 of earlier filed application Ser. No. 11 514 293 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 721 522 entitled TORQUE LOAD TRANSFER ATTACHMENT HARDWARE by Jorge I. Farah et al. and filed Aug. 31 2006 which is a continuation in part of application Ser. No. 11 326 004 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 581 399 entitled DAMPED COIL PIN FOR ATTACHMENT HANGER HINGE by Jorge I. Farah et al. and filed Jan. 5 2006.

The U.S. Government has a paid up license in this invention and the right in limited circumstances to require the patent owner to license others on reasonable terms as provided for by the terms of Contract No. N00019 02 C 3003 awarded by the United States Navy.

This invention relates generally to gas turbine engines and more particularly to exhaust duct liner attachment systems and methods. In gas turbine engines it is necessary to protect exhaust ducts with an insulating shield in order to prevent heated core gases from damaging the exhaust ducts. Typically exhaust ducts are made from titanium or titanium alloys and have temperature limits in the vicinity of 400 F. 204.4 C. . Exhausted core gases can reach temperatures upwards of 3500 F. 1648.89 C. . It is therefore necessary to line exhaust ducts with a material capable of withstanding the peak temperatures of the core gases and that prevents the exhaust duct from reaching its temperature limitations.

For particular operations particularly in military operations it is desirable to have aircraft with conventional take off and landing CTOL capabilities and short take off vertical landing STOVL capabilities. CTOL requires conventional thrusting of the aircraft in the horizontal direction while STOVL requires thrusting of the aircraft in vertical and intermediate directions. Some dual capability aircraft designs thus employ variable direction exhaust ducts such as three bearing swivel ducts 3BSDs for directing thrust produced by the exhaust nozzle in both the horizontal and vertical directions. Variable direction exhaust ducts typically comprise multiple co axial exhaust duct segments having angled junctions whereby the segments can be rotated with respect to each other to redirect the direction of thrust. The exhaust duct segments interface through swivel bearing joints which extends partially into the assembled exhaust duct. This has the effect of restricting the diameter of the exhaust duct near the swivel bearing joints. In order to properly pre load the swivel bearings it is typically necessary to assemble the exhaust duct segments before attaching exhaust duct liners to the exhaust duct segments. It is therefore necessary to have an exhaust duct liner suspension system that can be inserted past the swivel bearing joint in and secured to an already assembled exhaust duct. This typically requires insertion of fasteners into the interior of the duct from the exterior which can lead to difficulties in aligning fasteners with the suspension system and dropping of fasteners into the exhaust duct from which they are not easily recovered. It would be desirable to simplify the installation process of such suspension systems to for example reduce installation time and insure proper installation alignment.

The present invention is directed to a bushing for assembling an exhaust duct liner with an exhaust duct in a gas turbine engine. The bushing comprises a body a bushing opening and a first tab. The body is insertable into a duct opening in an exhaust duct. The bushing opening extends through the body to receive a shaft of a liner fastener. The first tab protrudes from the body to extend into an interior of the duct to prevent rotation of a head of the liner fastener.

Front duct A is connected with power plant along a vertical axis using forward swivel bearing A. Swivel bearing A allows front duct A to rotate approximately 360 with respect to power plant . Swivel bearing A is controlled by a central control system of aircraft that positions front duct A for each desired operational mode of aircraft . Similarly intermediate duct B is connected with front duct A using intermediate swivel bearing B. Swivel bearing B is centrally controlled and allows intermediate duct B to rotate approximately 360 with respect to front duct A. The body of intermediate duct B is angled at angle b and the aft edge of front duct A is angled at angle a such that when they rotate with respect to each other the position of nozzle rotates about the x axis. Likewise rear duct C is connected with intermediate duct B using aft swivel bearing C. Swivel bearing C is centrally controlled and allows rear duct C to rotate approximately 360 with respect to intermediate duct B. With the body of intermediate duct B being angled at angle b the forward edge of rear duct C is angled at angle c such that when it rotates the position of nozzle rotates about the x axis. Angles a b and c are selected such that in configuration A 3BSD is generally horizontal but can be pivoted to reposition nozzle . shows front duct A rotated 180 with respect to power plant intermediate duct B rotated 180 with respect to front duct A and rear duct C rotated 180 with respect to intermediate duct B. Thus due to the angles at which front duct A intermediate duct B and rear duct C are joined angles a b and c 3BSD is angled downward a total of about 105 with respect to the x axis in configuration B. Nozzle can also be oriented approximately 40 from the x axis e.g. for short take off operation by rotating front duct A intermediate duct B and rear duct C approximately 180 each.

Because of manufacturing and assembly reasons such as those described above exhaust liners A C must be assembled with exhaust ducts A C after exhaust ducts A C have been assembled to each other. Therefore front liner A intermediate liner B and rear liner C are suspended from front duct A intermediate duct B and rear duct C respectively using a plurality of suspension systems that can be secured from the exterior of ducts A C. Suspension systems span the difference in diameters of ducts A C and liners A C and can be tailored to specific lengths. Typically there are about twenty rows of suspension systems evenly distributed along the circumference of each duct segment with rows at wider parts of the ducts having more suspension systems. To simplify and improve assembly and disassembly of the exhaust liners and the exhaust ducts suspension systems include duct torque bushings for receiving the fasteners used to join suspensions systems with exhaust ducts A C.

Cold sheet bracket is connected with intermediate duct liner B at corrugation . Cold sheet bracket is inserted through hole in duct liner B from the interior of duct liner B. Hinge forms a rotatable connection with bracket utilizing pin . Pin is compression fit into a bore in cold sheet bracket such that pin will not rotate with respect to cold sheet bracket but hinge is rotatable about pin . Typically each cold sheet bracket hinge and pin are pre assembled as a hinge assembly before each bracket is joined with liner B. Once the pre assembled hinge assemblies are fastened to liner B hangers are joined with each hinge from the exterior of liner B. Hangers are connected to each other by axial stiffener which among other things provides axial load sharing between hangers . Hangers hinge and axial stiffener are fastened together with for example threaded fasteners or rivets. Due to stiffener hangers are simultaneously rotatable downward into corrugations . Hangers are rotated away from stiffener as indicated by arrow R such that stiffener does not prevent hangers from laying down into corrugations . Thus suspension systems are insertable past swivel bearing joints A C during assembly of 3BSD .

After exhaust ducts A C are assembled to each other and to aircraft intermediate liner B is inserted into exhaust duct B. Hanger is then rotated upward such that suspension system can be joined with exhaust duct B with bushing fastener and lock nut . Bushing provides a mistake proof method for joining fastener with hanger . For example bushing insures that fastener is properly seated with hanger and allows for improved torque transfer from fastener to duct B during assembly and disassembly of nut and fastener .

Intermediate duct B includes duct opening and first end of hanger includes hanger opening and fastener flanges . When first end is placed in position for assembly duct opening and hanger opening substantially align with each other such that they are able to receive fastener . Fastener includes shaft and head . In one embodiment shaft comprises threaded channels for receiving and engaging corresponding channels in lock nut . Head comprises an oblong shape such that its width is longer than its length l. In one embodiment fastener is a T bolt. The profile of openings and correspond to the profile i.e. length and width of head such that fastener will pass through openings and only when the widths and lengths of the three features are substantially aligned. In the embodiment shown openings and are positioned such that the length of each hole is parallel to the centerline of engine but in other embodiments could be perpendicular to the centerline or have some other configuration. Once fastener is inserted into openings and head is rotatable in opening of hanger . For proper installation of suspension system head is rotated preferably ninety degrees such that head engages flanges and fastener is prevented from pulling out of openings and .

Bushing is insertable into opening such that hole fits around shaft . Hole provides a tight tolerance fit around shaft and bushing provides a tight tolerance fit in opening such that duct B is sealed by bushing . Additional washers can be included between duct B and nut or duct B and head to further enhance the seal once assembled. Bushing includes tab which provides for proper orientation of fastener head and provides torque load distribution for removing nut from shaft during disassembly of suspension system .

First end of hanger is positioned such that hanger opening aligns with duct opening of intermediate duct B. Fastener is inserted into openings and such that head rests on drop plate located in opening of hanger . Drop plate also includes webbing which strategically increases the width of drop plate . One or more webbings are placed around drop plate to prevent fastener from dropping through opening during rotation or if it becomes canted in openings and during installation. For proper installation of suspension system head is rotated approximately ninety degrees from the orientation in which it passed through openings and such that its width is substantially transverse to the width of openings and . Thus fastener is restrained from pulling out of openings and by flanges .

Hanger also includes web for impeding rotation of head of fastener . Web comprises a flange or tab that extends into opening from flange such that it engagable with head when head is rotated in opening . During assembly of suspension system nut is torqued onto shaft thereby causing clockwise as viewed from the exterior of duct B rotation of head . Web pushes back on head thereby holding head substantially perpendicular to opening while suspension system is being assembled. A second web is included on hanger positioned one hundred eighty degrees from web on opening such that it assists web in restraining rotation of head .

Likewise in order to prevent head from spinning during disassembly of suspension system bushing is provided with tab . Tab impedes free rotation of head in opening in the counterclockwise direction. Tab transmits torque during disassembly of suspension system by substantially preventing rotation of head . One alternative to use of tab is to rely on web to prevent counterclockwise rotation of head . Often times however the torque required to dislodge nut from shaft exceeds the torque necessary to fully seat nut during installation the torque for which web is designed to withstand. This is typically due to residual heat stresses imparted in fastener dirt corrosion or the like. The torque required to remove nut could damage hanger before head would even be allowed to rotate in the counterclockwise direction until it contacted web . Thus for weight and space considerations web is typically designed to withstand only the necessary assembly torque imparted in fastener . Another alternative to use of tab is to include additional webs on opening to prevent counterclockwise rotation of head . This alternative however could interfere with the capability of head to be rotated perpendicular to opening e.g. prevent head from engaging flange after being inserted into opening . Therefore tab is included in bushing to transmit disassembly torque to duct B which can absorb much larger stresses than hanger .

Tab also ensures that head is engaged with web during installation to prevent improper alignment of head . Bushing is seated in opening of duct B and includes flange around its outer periphery. Flange prevents bushing from passing through and into duct B and also assists in sealing opening . Tab prevents bushing from being inserted into opening unless head is rotated substantially transverse to openings and and flush with web . It is preferable that head is transverse to openings and so that maximum tension will be transmitted from duct B to hanger through shaft .

The sizing and positioning of tab is such that bushing can be inserted into opening in two positions with tab on either the upstream or downstream side of opening . The exact sizing and dimensions of bushing and tab depends on the specific design parameters of suspension system and aircraft . When bushing is inserted into opening tab extends into opening such that its width is substantially transverse to the widths of openings and . The width of tab is then substantially aligned with and abutted against the width of head ensuring that head is properly transverse with opening when suspension system is assembled. Also the length of tab is aligned with and abutted against the side of the web opposite web not seen in .

The length of tab i.e. the distance it extends into opening of hanger depends on the position of drop plate and the thickness t of head . In the various embodiments of the present invention tab extends to within close proximity of drop plate such that head is prevented from rotating by tab . In other words the distance between the bottom of tab and the top of drop plate when assembled is less than thickness t of head .

Opening is generally positioned at the center of the main body of bushing and has a diameter that approximates the diameter of shaft of fastener such that a seal is formed. Depression surrounds opening and extends into the underside of bushing primarily as a weight reduction means. The profile of the main body of bushing approximates the profile of opening in duct B such that the main body assist in transmitting torque from tab to duct B. The body of bushing also matches with opening such that bushing will retain shaft of fastener aligned in opening .

Flange extends around the periphery of bushing such that bushing cannot pass through duct opening . Flange has width X such bushing forms a seal with opening of duct B. Flange also provides nut with a ledge for transmitting tensile forces from fastener to duct B.

Tab has a D shaped cross section but in other embodiments can have other shapes. Tab includes generally planar face for aligning with the width of head of fastener . Face is generally planar such that it fully engages head and evenly transmits torque to duct B.

Tab functions to transfer torque from head to duct B. Thickness T of bushing can be increased to absorb higher torque loads for use with for example heavier duct liners. In other embodiments of the invention bushing includes additional features such as a second tab for further improving the torque transfer capabilities of bushing .

While the invention has been described with reference to an exemplary embodiment s it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiment s disclosed but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

