---

title: Torque wrench for implantable medical devices
abstract: A torque wrench for implantable medical devices is disclosed. The torque wrench comprises a first and a second component. The first component has first and second ends with a bore extending between the first and second ends of the first component. The first component includes a plurality of anti-rotation members extending from an inner surface of the bore at the second end of the first component. A second component includes a middle portion having a first and second ends. A drive shaft extends from the first end and a plurality of fingers extends from an exterior surface of the second end. The second component is received in the bore of the first component such that the fingers are interdigitate with the anti-rotation members.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08875602&OS=08875602&RS=08875602
owner: Medtronic, Inc.
number: 08875602
owner_city: Minneapolis
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090731
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 174 434 filed on Apr. 30 2009. The disclosure of the above application is incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates generally to wrenches and more particularly to torque wrenches used to rotate a connector in an implantable medical device.

Many implantable medical devices such as pacemakers defibrillators and neural stimulators can sense various physiological parameters through medical leads and or deliver therapy to tissue. Leads include an elongated flexible lead body. The lead body comprises one or more insulated elongated conductors with one or more electrodes disposed at a distal end of the conductors.

To ensure the lead is properly secured to an implantable medical device the proximal end of the conductor referred to as a terminal pin is passed through a conductor bore in the connector block of a header. A setscrew which passes through a threaded setscrew bore that intersects with the lead bore is positioned to contact the conductor. A very small surgical torque wrench is then used to apply a certain amount of torque to the setscrew. Torque applied to the setscrew should provide a retention force between the setscrew and the conductor that is sufficiently large to prevent the conductor from dislodging from the header yet low enough to prevent the torque from damaging the setscrew or conductor. After the setscrew has been tightened the torque wrench is typically discarded to ensure contaminants from one surgical procedure are not transferred to another procedure. It is desirable to develop surgical torque wrenches that apply appropriate torque to a setscrew when securing a lead to a header and that are also inexpensive in order to reduce the cost of such procedures to patients.

The following description of the preferred embodiments is merely exemplary in nature and is in no way intended to limit the invention its application or uses. For purposes of clarity similar reference numbers are used in the drawings to identify similar elements.

The present disclosure relates to a surgical torque wrench. A surgical torque wrench can be used to securely connect a medical electrical lead to an implantable medical device. One or more embodiments of the torque wrench consist solely of a first component and a second component. By forming a torque wrench with two components instead of for example nine or more components as that which is used with conventional torque wrenches for IMDs the torque wrench of the present disclosure is easier to manufacture assemble and potentially use. Additionally a lower cost can be realized by patients who undergo surgery using the torque wrench described herein.

In one or more embodiments a surgical torque wrench includes a first component that has first and second ends and a bore extending between the first and second ends. At the second end of the first component a plurality of anti rotation members extend from an inner surface of the bore. The second component includes a middle portion having a first and second ends. A drive shaft extends from the first end while a plurality of fingers extend from an exterior surface of the second component. The second component is received in the bore of the first component such that the drive shaft partially extends outside the first end of the first component and the plurality of fingers are interdigitate with the anti rotation members of the first component.

Referring to an implantable medical device IMD can include implantable pacemakers implantable cardioverter defibrillator ICD devices cardiac resynchronization therapy defibrillator devices neurostimulators drug pumps or combinations thereof. Exemplary IMDs are commercially available as including one generally known to those skilled in the art such as the Medtronic CONCERTO SENSIA VIRTUOSO RESTORE RESTORE ULTRA sold by Medtronic Inc. of Minnesota. IMD can include an implantable case housing or body assembly . Implantable case can be formed of appropriate materials and include appropriate features such as a hermetically sealed body wall . Body wall comprises substantially conductive material such as titanium.

Contained within or associated with case can be a power device such as one or more batteries and or capacitors encased in housing or case body wall a controller assembly and a connector body . Controller assembly can include a circuit board having a processor memory transmitter receiver and or other appropriate portions. Connector body can extend from or be integrated with case . At its distal end connector body or header can include one or more ports that interconnects with one or more connector terminals of one or more lead assemblies . Exemplary connector bodies can include International Standard 1 IS 1 connectors IS 4 connectors or other suitable connectors contained within an insulative body.

Lead assemblies can comprise respective lead bodies . Lead bodies include one or more elongated insulated conductive elements. Each conductive element extends from a proximal end to a distal end . In particular as shown in a conductive element for the lead assemblies has a terminal pin located at the proximal end and at the distal end an uninsulated portion of a conductive element connects with one of the electrodes such as a ring electrode or a tip electrode

To connect a lead body to the IMD the terminal pin which extends from lead body is placed through a bore in connector body and inside a setscrew block . Connector such as a set screw is dielectrically insulated from body fluid outside the IMD through a silicone grommet . A torque wrench contacts the connector by passing through a slit not shown in the grommet . An exemplary torque wrench for applying an appropriate amount of torque to connector is depicted in . Torque wrench can comprise or consist of a handle and a drive shaft member which are used in combination to tighten connector onto a terminal pin . The proximal end of drive shaft can include an integrally formed drive shaft tool interface which is configured to connect with connector . The drive shaft member is positioned within a bore of handle and snaps into place once snap groove of drive shaft member connects with snap protrusion of handle . Drive shaft member includes a position member that extends through an aperture not shown of handle and positions the drive shaft member to rotate about rotational axis . Additionally flexible fingers which extend from the drive shaft member and substantially protrude in a perpendicular direction relative to the drive shaft axis selectively engage with anti rotation members that extend from the handle . Referring briefly to the torque wrench handle can then rotate until its anti rotation members connect with the flexible fingers on the drive shaft member . Further rotation of handle allows torque to be applied to connector until connector is sufficiently tightened against terminal pin as depicted in . While connector is shown as a setscrew connector can also be a nut bolt or other suitable fastener.

A plurality of anti rotation members or protrusions are formed on the inner wall of handle near or at the distal end . For example anti rotation members can be located from about 0.05 inches to about 1.5 inches from an edge at the distal end . In other embodiments anti rotation members can be located from about 0.01 inches to about 2.5 inches from an edge at the distal end . In other embodiments anti rotation members can be located from about 0 inches to about 5 inches from an edge at the distal end .

As depicted in anti rotation members can include a surface flat surfaces and a curved end . Surface which can be flat or substantially flat is directly contacted by a distal portion of fingers of drive shaft member while curved end provides sufficient rigidity to secure anti rotation members in position. The distal portion of fingers can also contact flat surfaces and or curved end .

Anti rotation members extending into bore can be formed by a variety of shapes. For example anti rotation members can possess a shape that is substantially elliptical substantially cylindrical substantially rectangular substantially triangular or other suitable shapes. depicts an anti rotation member with a substantially triangular cross section. Substantially triangular can involve an anti rotation member within 20 percent of a precise triangular shape. depicts an anti rotation member with a substantially rectangular cross section. depicts an anti rotation member with a substantially half circle cross section.

Handle can further include a plurality of inner diameters in order to receive and secure drive shaft member within bore . For example as shown in the plurality of inner diameters can include a first inner diameter ID1 a second inner diameter ID2 a third inner diameter ID3 and a fourth inner diameter ID4 . Exemplary diameters are presented below in table 1 however other sizes can also be used.

Referring to the exterior surface of the handle can include gripping elements. For example depicts protrusions such as convex protrusions in handle can aid in gripping the handle . Recessed regions or concave regions in handle can also be used to allow a user to better grip handle . The convex protrusions or recessed regions can be elongated short and or small dots. Referring briefly to the outer diameter of the handle can vary along the handle s rotational axis to provide enhanced gripping features. In some embodiments outer diameter can range from about 0.3 inches to about 1.2 inches. In other embodiments outer diameter can range from about 0.1 inches to about 2.5 inches. In yet other embodiments outer diameter can range from about 0.05 inches to about 3.5 inches.

Referring to drive shaft member comprises a first end the drive shaft end a middle portion and a second end . In one or more embodiments first end middle portion and second end are integrally formed together. First end includes a drive shaft tool interface a drive shaft a snap groove and drive shaft surface . Drive shaft is preferably integrally formed to drive shaft member . In one embodiment a rigid tool interface is formed by a drive shaft material that can be more rigid than the material used for the rest of the drive shaft member . For example the rigid tool interface can comprise a metal or alloy while the rest of the drive shaft member could be a polymer such as plastic. Exemplary polymers can include acrylonitrile butadiene styrene ABS polyetherimide PEI manufactured by SABIC Innovative Plastics located in Houston Tex. and polyaryletheretherketone PEEK commercially available from Solvay located in Houston Tex.

In one embodiment a metal drive shaft is insert molded into a plastic body in which the drive shaft and the plastic body together form the drive shaft member . In this embodiment and in other embodiments the flexible fingers can be integrally formed as part of the drive shaft member during the molding process.

Drive shaft tool interface depicted in is integrally or separately formed to drive shaft . Drive shaft tool interface can include a distal side not shown located adjacent to drive shaft and a proximal side as shown in . The proximal side directly touches or contacts the connector . Proximal side of torque wrench tool interface is configured to securely attach to an opposing exterior surface of connector . Many torque wrench tool interfaces can be applied to one or more of the embodiments described herein. Tool interface can be configured to connect with a variety of screw drives disposed on connector . Exemplary screw drive types can be slotted Philips hex torx spanner head triple square or other suitable types.

Referring to drive shaft comprises a longitudinal element integrally formed with a base portion that can be flared. Longitudinal element is typically solid and can possess a diameter that ranges from about 0.01 inches to about 0.5 inches. In typical embodiments the longitudinal element possesses a diameter that ranges from about 0.025 inches to about 0.2 inches. The length of the longitudinal element can range from about 0.01 inches to about 5 inches. In typical embodiments the length of the longitudinal element can range from about 0.1 inches to about 2 inches. Base portion is proximal to drive shaft bearing surfaces and snap groove . More particularly base portion is closer to the torque wrench tool interface than drive shaft bearing surfaces and snap groove . Snap groove can include an outer diameter that ranges from about 0.01 inches to about 4 inches. In typical embodiments snap groove can include an outer diameter that ranges from about 0.2 inches to about 1.5 inches.

Middle portion comprises a body portion with a variety of outer diameters in order to support and securely connect to handle . Outer diameters can include outer diameter one OD1 outer diameter two OD2 and outer diameter three OD3 which can couple with ID1 ID2 and ID3 respectively of handle . The inner diameter dimensions that define the interior geometry of the handle are at least slightly larger than the corresponding outer diameter OD1 OD4 dimensions of the drive shaft member such that the drive shaft member is able to spin freely relative to the handle unless the flexible fingers collide or contact the anti rotation members . Spin freely occurs when a torque that is less than half of the breakaway torque is able to cause the drive shaft member to rotate relative to the handle . Exemplary outer diameter dimensions for drive shaft are presented below in Table 2.

The second end includes a position member referred to as a position cylinder and a plurality of flexible fingers . Position member shaped as a cylinder is configured to extend through an aperture so that position member can rotate. The inner diameter of the position aperture is slightly larger than the outer diameter of the position cylinder .

As shown plurality of fingers comprise at least four fingers however any number of fingers can be used. For example one or more fingers can be used on the second end of the drive shaft member . In one or more embodiments the plurality of fingers are symmetrically spaced apart from each other. In another embodiment plurality of fingers are asymmetrically spaced apart from each other.

Referring to and flexible fingers are sized such that flexible fingers typically are unable to touch any part of the handle except the anti rotation members . The drive shaft member has a plurality of flexible fingers extending from an exterior surface. While flexible fingers can follow a tortuous path in one or more embodiments fingers protrude in a perpendicular or substantially perpendicular direction relative to the drive shaft axis such that the generally flat proximal portion of fingers typically point in a direction that is away from the drive shaft axis . Substantially perpendicular includes perpendicular plus or minus 50 degrees relative to drive shaft axis . In other embodiments the flexible fingers extend from an exterior surface that is not substantially perpendicular.

Referring to each relaxed flexible finger comprises a first portion a second portion and a third portion each of which can be integrally formed as a single finger. In one or more embodiments the flexible fingers attach to the first portion base of the drive shaft member . First portion extends radially away from the drive shaft axis of drive shaft member . The drive shaft axis runs through the middle of the drive shaft member from the first end to the second end .

Second portion is integrally formed to first and third portions respectively. In one or more embodiments second portion can be curved. In some embodiments the angle between the first portion and the second portion ranges from 0 degrees to 120 degrees. In some embodiments third portion also referred to as a distal portion gripping portion or a coupling portion is substantially perpendicular to first and or third portions respectively. Second portion typically can move up to 90 degrees from a relaxed position to a stressed position. In some embodiments second portion can move up to 150 degrees from a relaxed position to a stressed position. In typical embodiments each finger possesses the flexibility to elastically deform until the finger touches the surface of the drive shaft member from which the finger extends and then spring back to about the finger s relaxed position without breaking. The fingers do not include a helical spring like conventional torque wrenches.

Polymeric material can be used to form the flexible fingers as well as the remaining portions of drive shaft member . Typically the polymeric material selected for forming flexible fingers provides sufficient flexibility such that fingers do not relax or creep over time due to compressive forces imparted from the handle on the flexible fingers when the torque wrench is not in use. Exemplary material that can be used to form fingers can include polyetherimide PEI although other polymeric material can be used such as polyaryletheretherketone PEEK acrylonitrile butadiene styrene ABS . Other suitable polymers can also be used. In one or more embodiments the flexible finger can bend toward the drive shaft axis in order to rotate or move past the anti rotation member .

A fully assembled exemplary torque wrench is depicted in . In one or more embodiments the drive shaft member and the handle are assembled by simply pushing the drive shaft member into the proximal end of opening or bore located in the handle which is closest to the snap protrusion . Drive shaft member can be rotated or moved while being pushed into handle so that the plurality of fingers are positioned interdigitate with the anti rotation members . Once the snap protrusion of handle resides in the snap groove and the position cylinder resides in the position aperture the torque wrench is fully assembled.

The small clearance or gap not shown between the drive shaft bearing surfaces and the handle bearing surfaces and the small gap not shown or clearance between the position cylinder and the position aperture ensures the drive shaft axis is generally aligned with the handle axis even when the handle rotates relative to the drive shaft member . The assembler or user can then verify that handle is able to rotate relative to the drive shaft member . The handle axis runs through the middle of the handle from the distal end to a proximal end .

To rotate handle torque is applied between the drive shaft member and the handle which causes the flexible fingers to contact the anti rotation members . If breakaway torque is applied the flexible fingers can elastically deform and bend sufficiently to move past the anti rotation members . Breakaway torque is a maximum level of torque that torque wrench can apply between the handle and the drive shaft member . For example a torque wrench can have a breakaway torque of 14 ounce inches. In this case a user could apply any torque from 0 ounce inches up to 14 ounce inches. If the user applied a torque less than 14 ounce inches and the handle was engaged with the drive shaft member the handle would not rotate more than 360 degrees relative to the drive shaft member . An applied torque that is equal to or greater than the breakaway torque can cause flexible fingers to sufficiently bend and move past the anti rotation members such that the handle can rotate more than 360 degrees relative to the drive shaft member . If a user tried to apply a torque greater than 14 ounce inches the handle would begin to rotate relative to the drive shaft member thus limiting the maximum level of torque the user could apply to approximately 14 ounce inches. Once a user has applied the breakaway torque between the torque wrench and the connector to tighten the connector onto the terminal pin the lead is securely joined with the header as shown in .

In one or more embodiments the anti rotation members deform less than the fingers . In another embodiment the anti rotation members do not deform more than ten percent of the rotational deformation of the fingers . In yet another embodiment the fingers and the anti rotation members deform about equally.

The combined deformation of each connecting pair which is one finger and one anti rotation member that are touching or engaged should be sufficient to allow the handle to rotate relative to the drive shaft member more than 360 degrees when a torque at least as large as the breakaway torque is applied between the handle and the drive shaft member . The combined deformation of each connecting pair should not be sufficient to allow the handle to rotate relative to the drive shaft member more than 360 degrees when a torque less than the breakaway torque is applied between the handle and the drive shaft member . For example a finger might deform 70 degrees and an anti rotation member that is engaged with the finger might deform 20 degrees. The deformation of the finger without the deformation of the anti rotation member may be insufficient to allow the finger to rotate past the anti rotation member when a breakaway torque is applied. Yet the deformation of the finger combined with the deformation of the anti rotation member can be sufficient to allow the finger to rotate past the anti rotation member when a breakaway torque is applied.

Deformation of the fingers and or the deformation of the anti rotation members due to an applied torque in at least one rotational direction should not damage the fingers and or the anti rotation members . Damage may occur when the breakaway torque in a given rotational direction changes by more than 50 percent from one cycle to the next cycle. A cycle involves increasing the torque between the handle and the drive shaft member until the handle moves more than 360 degrees but less than 720 degrees relative to the drive shaft member .

In one or more embodiments applying the breakaway torque during one cycle in the clockwise direction typically does not change the breakaway torque more than 50 percent in the next clockwise cycle but exceeding the breakaway torque in the counterclockwise direction will change the breakaway torque more than 50 percent in the next cycle. For example a torque wrench may not be damaged by clockwise cycles but can be damaged by counterclockwise cycles. In another example a torque wrench may not be damaged by counterclockwise cycles but can be damaged by clockwise cycles.

In one or more embodiments fingers are located near a cap disposed at the distal end of the torque wrench . Cap simplifies the moldability of the rest of the handle by allowing adequate mold tool access to the fingers . The torque wrench in is assembled by first snapping or bonding the cap onto distal end of the handle . Thereafter the drive shaft member is pressed into the proximal end of the handle until the snap protrusion snaps into the handle . depicts a cutaway view of the handle from taken along lines .

In this embodiment the anti rotation members deform less than the fingers . The interaction between the anti rotation members and the fingers prevent the handle from rotating more than 360 degrees relative to the drive shaft member unless a torque at least as large as the breakaway torque is applied between the handle and the drive shaft member . In this embodiment applying the breakaway torque does not damage the fingers and or the anti rotation members .

The torque wrench in is assembled by pressing the drive shaft member into the proximal end of the handle until the snap protrusion snaps into the handle . depicts a cutaway view of the handle from taken along lines . Fingers in also lack a helical spring. In some embodiments the fingers and or the anti rotation members comprise or consist of a polymeric material.

In this embodiment the anti rotation members do not deform. The fingers do not deform sufficiently to allow the drive shaft member to rotate relative to the handle unless a torque at least as large as the breakaway torque is applied between the handle and the drive shaft member . depicts the fingers which are long and slender with rectangular surfaces. The fingers and the anti rotation members are not damaged when the breakaway torque is applied between the handle and the drive shaft member .

The torque wrench in can be assembled by pressing the drive shaft member into the proximal end of the handle until the snap protrusion snaps into the handle . The fingers in lack a helical spring. In some embodiments the fingers and or the anti rotation members comprise or consist of a polymeric material. In the torque wrench embodiment shown in the handle is plastic and the drive shaft member is metal. The drive shaft member in this embodiment can be formed by electrical discharge machining. A similar embodiment can be manufactured by stamping and forming the fingers and then pressing the fingers into a molded body wherein the molded body and the fingers comprise the drive shaft member . More specifically a ring can be stamped or cut from a flat sheet of metal that is about approximately 0.035 inches thick. Next the fingers can be manufactured by stamping or cutting multiple holes such as U shaped holes into the metal sheet. The suspended metal sections formed by stamping or cutting multiple U shaped holes are then bent or formed such that each suspended metal section extends at an angle of about 45 to 90 degrees from the plane in which the majority of the metal ring resides. The suspended metal sections are fingers and the ring is attached to the rest of the drive shaft member .

The anti rotation members do not allow the fingers to rotate past the anti rotation members unless a torque at least as large as the breakaway torque is applied between the handle and the drive shaft member . When a torque at least as large as the breakaway torque is applied between the handle and the drive shaft member the fingers elastically deform to enable the fingers to rotate past the anti rotation members . The deformation caused by the fingers rotating past the anti rotation members does not damage the fingers and or the anti rotation members .

Torque wrench in is assembled by pressing the drive shaft member into the proximal end of the handle until the snap protrusion snaps into the handle . The fingers in lack a helical spring. In some embodiments the fingers and or the anti rotation members consist of a polymeric material. In some embodiments the fingers and or the anti rotation members consist of a metal material. Metal fingers can be formed by processes such as machining stamping and forming or other suitable methods.

Although the present disclosure has been described in considerable detail with reference to certain disclosed embodiments the disclosed embodiments are presented for purposes of illustration and not limitation and other embodiments of the disclosure are possible. For example in one or more other embodiments torque wrench is solely formed of handle and drive shaft member as described herein. It will be appreciated that various changes adaptations and modifications may be made without departing from the spirit of the disclosure and the scope of the appended claims. In one or more embodiments breakaway torque in the clockwise direction can be different from the breakaway torque in the counterclockwise direction due at least in part to the shape of the flexible fingers and or the shape of the anti rotation members . In one or more embodiments the flexible fingers are symmetrical in the clockwise direction and counterclockwise direction such that the breakaway torque in the clockwise direction is about equal to the breakaway torque in the counterclockwise direction. In another embodiment the flexible fingers are attached to or part of the handle . In this embodiment the flexible fingers generally extend towards the drive shaft member and the anti rotation features are located on the drive shaft member . In yet another embodiment the flexible fingers are approximately aligned with the drive shaft axis and generally deform in a direction aligned with the direction of the torsion force rather than deform in a direction generally perpendicular to the drive shaft axis . In some embodiments the fingers and or the anti rotation members comprise or consist of a polymeric material. Skilled artisans appreciate that the sizes of components can be modified to implement features of the embodiment s described herein.

