---

title: Toner for electrostatic image development
abstract: 

wherein each of Rand R, which may be identical or different, is a linear or branched alkyl group having 3 to 8 carbon atoms; each of R, R, R, and R, which may be identical or different, is a hydrogen atom, an alkyl group having 1 to 8 carbon atoms, an alkoxy group having 1 to 8 carbon atoms, a halogen atom, a nitro group, or a carboxyl group; and A is a cation. The toner for electrostatic image development is suitably used in developing latent images formed in, for example, electrophotography, an electrostatic recording method, an electrostatic printing method, or the like.

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08187779&OS=08187779&RS=08187779
owner: Kao Corporation
number: 08187779
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20090501
---
The present invention relates to a toner for electrostatic image development usable in developing latent images formed in for example electrophotography an electrostatic recording method an electrostatic printing method or the like and a method of forming fixed images using the toner.

In recent years with the growth of the print on demand market the demands for speeding up electrophotographic techniques are all the more increasing. In view of the above as a means for meeting the requirement of speeding up a toner that is capable of fixing at a low temperature is studied in order to fix the toner on paper with less energy. For example a toner having excellent low temperature fixing ability by containing a linear low softening point polyester as a resin binder see JP A Hei 3 5764 U.S. Pat. No. 5 079 123 JP A Hei 6 282102 U.S. Pat. No. 5 395 726 and the like a method for producing a toner including the step of melt kneading under specified conditions using a resin binder containing a polyester having a softening point of from 90 to 110 C. and a low melting point wax having a melting point of from 60 to 90 C. see JP A 2006 47879 and the like and the like are proposed.

Further in order to control an increase in toner scattering i.e. toner dust caused by the speeding up of a developer device a polyester having a high triboelectric chargeability obtained from an aromatic monomer such as terephthalic acid as a raw material monomer for a resin binder is widely used. In addition with the speeding up mechanical stress applied to a toner also increases so that durability is lowered however by using the above aromatic monomer the glass transition temperature of the polyester is increased and durability is also increased see JP A 2003 149865 and the like .

On the other hand as a new charge control agent having a quick initial rise of triboelectric charges and excellent environmental stability a specified azo iron complex is reported in JP A 2007 334139.

wherein the resin binder contains a polyester A obtained by polycondensing a carboxylic acid component containing isophthalic acid and or an ester thereof and an alcohol component and wherein the charge control agent contains an azo iron complex represented by the formula I 

The present invention relates to a toner for electrostatic image development having excellent low temperature fixing ability and triboelectric chargeability and providing even more excellent smearing property and transferability thereby making it possible to maintain a stable image density without causing toner scattering even in the formation of fixed images at high speeds and a method of forming fixed images using the toner.

The toner for electrostatic image development of the present invention exhibits excellent effects that the toner has excellent low temperature fixing ability and triboelectric chargeability and provides even more excellent smearing property and transferability thereby making it possible to maintain a stable image density without causing toner scattering even in the formation of fixed images at high speeds.

Even when an iron azo complex described in JP A 2007 334139 is used smearing property and transferability are not sufficient so that the image density is likely to be lowered and the toner scattering is likely to be generated.

A great feature of the toner for electrostatic image development of the present invention containing a resin binder and a charge control agent resides in that the toner contains a specified resin binder and a specified charge control agent.

The resin binder contains a polyester A obtained by polycondensing a carboxylic acid component containing isophthalic acid and or an ester thereof hereinafter also referred to as isophthalic acid compound and an alcohol component. As in a conventional case if a polyester having a low softening point that can meet the demand for a non contact fusing method is synthesized using terephthalic acid from the viewpoint of triboelectric chargeability the reactivity with terephthalic acid and the alcohol component is low so that a low molecular weight component such as a monomer or an oligomer remains thereby leading to cause the lowering of elasticity of the resin. If a toner of which resin has a lowered elasticity is used in a high speed apparatus for forming fixed images a large stress is applied to the toner and an external additive is easily embedded in the toner so that transferability is worsened and an image density is also lowered. By contrast in the present invention since isophthalic acid is used in the carboxylic acid component its reactivity with the alcohol component is excellent so that the residual monomers in the polyester can be dramatically reduced. Further by combining an azo iron complex mentioned later and the polyester dispersibility of a charge control agent in the toner increases so that a phenomenon in which a toner after fixing is removed at an interface of the charge control agent and the resin due to stress is reduced thereby making smearing property excellent. Specifically since isophthalic acid is an asymmetric monomer a polymer chain is bent thereby lowering crystallinity of the polyester as compared to a case where a symmetric monomer such as terephthalic acid is used. Although not wanting to be limited by theory it is presumed that if crystallinity is low the interaction of the molecular chains themselves is weakened so that the charge control agent is very highly dispersed by a combined use of a polyester having low crystallinity and a charge control agent having high dispersibility whereby the phenomenon of removing a toner at an interface of the charge control agent and the resin is prevented.

In the present invention if only a polyester obtained by using an aromatic carboxylic compound such as isophthalic acid as a carboxylic acid component is used low temperature fixing ability is not sufficient because of a rigid molecular backbone of the polyester. Therefore it is preferable that one or more members selected from the group consisting of fumaric acid maleic acid maleic anhydride and an ester thereof which may be hereinafter referred to as a fumaric acid maleic acid compound is further used as the carboxylic acid component of the polyester. The esters of isophthalic acid fumaric acid and maleic acid include lower alkyl 1 to 6 carbon atoms esters thereof and the like.

The fumaric acid maleic acid compound may be used as a carboxylic acid component of a polyester different from the polyester obtained by using a carboxylic acid component containing the isophthalic acid compound a first embodiment or the fumaric acid maleic acid compound may be used as a carboxylic acid component of the same polyester together with the isophthalic compound a second embodiment and the first embodiment is preferable from the viewpoint of improving durability and smearing property.

The first embodiment of the polyester in the present invention contains a polyester A obtained by polycondensing a carboxylic acid component containing an isophthalic acid compound and an alcohol component and a polyester B obtained by polycondensing a carboxylic acid component containing a fumaric acid maleic acid compound and an alcohol component.

The isophthalic acid compound in the polyester A is contained in an amount of preferably 50 by mol or more more preferably 70 by mol or more and even more preferably 90 by mol or more of the carboxylic acid component.

In addition the fumaric acid maleic acid compound in the polyester B is contained in an amount of preferably 50 by mol or more more preferably 70 by mol or more and even more preferably 90 by mol or more of the carboxylic acid component. Here the isophthalic acid compound is preferably not contained in the carboxylic acid component of the polyester B. If contained it is preferable that the isophthalic acid compound is contained in an amount of 5 by mol or less of the carboxylic acid component. In addition it is preferable that the fumaric acid maleic acid compound is not contained in the carboxylic acid component of the polyester A in a case where the polyester A is used together with the polyester B. If contained it is preferable that the fumaric acid maleic acid compound is contained in an amount of 5 by mol or less of the carboxylic acid component.

Here the polyester A has an acid value of preferably less than 6 mg KOH g and more preferably less than 4 mg KOH g from the viewpoint of maintaining stable triboelectric chargeability even under various environmental conditions such as high temperatures and high humidity.

The polyester A and the polyester B in the resin binder are preferably in a weight ratio i.e. the polyester A the polyester B of preferably from 90 10 to 50 50 and more preferably from 80 20 to 60 40 from the viewpoint of the low temperature fixing ability triboelectric chargeability and image density.

A second embodiment of the polyester in the present invention is an embodiment in which the carboxylic acid component of the polyester A further contains a fumaric acid maleic acid compound in other words the polyester contains a polyester C obtained by polycondensing a carboxylic acid component containing an isophthalic acid compound and a fumaric acid maleic acid compound and an alcohol component.

The isophthalic acid compound is contained in the polyester C in an amount of preferably 50 by mol or more more preferably 60 by mol or more and even more preferably 70 by mol or more of the carboxylic acid component.

In addition the fumaric acid maleic acid compound in the polyester C is contained in an amount of preferably from 20 to 70 mol more preferably from 30 to 60 mol and even more preferably from 40 to 50 mol based on 100 mol of the isophthalic acid compound.

The alcohol component of the polyester includes an alkylene oxide adduct of bisphenol A represented by the formula II 

Among them the alkylene oxide adduct of bisphenol A represented by the formula II is preferred from the viewpoint of durability and triboelectric chargeability of the toner and a propylene oxide adduct of bisphenol A where Ris a propylene group in the formula II is more preferred from the viewpoint of increasing storage modulus at 50 C. thereby preventing an external additive from being embedded.

The alkylene oxide adduct of bisphenol A represented by the formula II is contained in an amount of preferably 5 by mol or more more preferably 50 by mol or more and even more preferably substantially 100 by mol of the alcohol component.

In addition the carboxylic acid component other than the isophthalic acid compound and the fumaric acid maleic acid compound includes dicarboxylic acids such as phthalic acid terephthalic acid adipic acid and succinic acid succinic acids substituted with an alkyl group having 1 to 20 carbon atoms or an alkenyl group having 2 to 20 carbon atoms such as dodecenylsuccinic acid and octenylsuccinic acid tricarboxylic or higher polycarboxylic acids such as trimellitic acid and pyromellitic acid acid anhydrides thereof and alkyl 1 to 8 carbon atoms esters of these acids and the like.

In addition the alcohol component may properly contain a monohydric alcohol and the carboxylic acid component may properly contain a monocarboxylic acid compound from the viewpoint of adjusting its molecular weight and the like.

In the present invention it is preferable that all of the polyesters A to C are linear polyesters from the viewpoint of low temperature fixing ability. The linear polyester refers to a polyester containing a trivalent or higher polyvalent monomer i.e. a trihydric or polyhydric alcohol and or a tricarboxylic or higher polycarboxylic acid compound in an amount of less than 1 by mol of a total amount of the carboxylic acid component and the alcohol component and it is preferred that the trivalent or higher polyvalent monomer is not substantially contained. On the other hand a nonlinear polyester refers to a polyester containing a trivalent or higher polyvalent monomer in an amount of 1 by mol or more of a total amount of the carboxylic acid component and the alcohol component. It is preferable that the resin binder of the toner of the present invention does not contain a nonlinear polyester from the viewpoint of improving the low temperature fixing ability of the toner.

The polyester is obtained by for example polycondensing an alcohol component and a carboxylic acid component in an inert gas atmosphere at a temperature of 180 to 250 C. using if necessary an esterification catalyst.

The polyester has a softening point of preferably from 90 to 120 C. more preferably from 95 to 115 C. and even more preferably from 100 to 110 C. from the viewpoint of low temperature fixing ability and durability of the toner. It is preferable that the entire resin binder also has a softening point within the above range.

The polyester has a glass transition temperature of preferably from 50 to 85 C. and more preferably from 55 to 80 C. from the viewpoint of storage property of the toner.

In both the softening point and the glass transition temperature in a case where the polyester contains plural polyesters as in the first embodiment mentioned above it is preferable that a weighed average efficiency thereof is within the above mentioned range.

Here in the present invention the polyester may be a modified polyester to an extent that its properties are not substantially impaired. The modified polyester refers to a grafted or blocked polyester with phenol urethane epoxy or the like in accordance with the methods described in for example JP A Hei 11 133668 JP A Hei 10 239903 JP A Hei 8 20636 and the like.

The polyester is contained in an amount of preferably from 70 to 100 by weight and more preferably substantially 100 by weight of the resin binder.

In the present invention a resin binder may properly contain a polyester other than the above mentioned polyesters and other resin binders to an extent that the effects of the present invention would not be impaired. Other resin binders include vinyl resins epoxy resins polycarbonates polyurethanes and the like.

In the formula I each of Rand R which may be identical or different is a linear or branched alkyl group having 3 to 8 carbon atoms and includes specifically an n propyl group an iso propyl group an n butyl group an iso butyl group a tert butyl group an n pentyl group an iso pentyl group a hexyl group a heptyl group an octyl group and the like. Ror Ris preferably a butyl group and more preferably a tert butyl group from the viewpoint of improving dispersibility of the charge control agent and environmental stability transferability image density and smearing property of the toner.

In the formula I each of the substituents R R Rand Ris a hydrogen atom an alkyl group having 1 to 8 carbon atoms including for example a methyl group an ethyl group an iso propyl group an n butyl group a tert butyl group a pentyl group a hexyl group a heptyl group an octyl group or the like an alkoxy group having 1 to 8 carbon atoms including for example a methoxy group an ethoxy group a propoxy group a butoxy group or the like a halogen atom including for example a fluorine atom a chlorine atom a bromine atom an iodine atom or the like a nitro group or a carboxyl group.

The counterion A of the above mentioned azo iron complex includes cations such as a hydrogen ion a sodium ion a potassium ion and an ammonium ion. The counterion is preferably a potassium ion and a hydrogen ion and more preferably a hydrogen ion from the viewpoint of environmental stability. The molar ratio of the hydrogen ions that are present in the counterions of the above mentioned azo iron complex is preferably 70 or more more preferably 90 or more and even more preferably 99 or more from the viewpoint of environmental stability.

Regarding the above mentioned azo iron complex a detailed production method therefor is described for example in JP A 2007 334139 or the like and the azo iron complex can be easily synthesized in accordance with the method.

The above mentioned azo iron complex has a specific volume resistivity of preferably from 0.2 10to 7.0 10 cm and more preferably from 0.5 10to 5.0 10 cm from the viewpoint of excellent initial rise of triboelectric charges and triboelectric stability of the toner. The above mentioned specific volume resistivity is a value measured as prescribed in JIS K6911. The above mentioned specific volume resistivity can be controlled by the step of dissolving a monoazo compound the step of iron complex formation reaction or the step of precipitating filtering washing and purifying the azo iron complex or the like.

The above mentioned azo iron complex has a volume median particle size D of preferably from 1 to 4 m and more preferably from 1 to 3 m from the viewpoint of dispersibility of the charge control agent and triboelectric stability of the toner. The above mentioned average particle size can be controlled by carrying out an iron complex formation reaction in water or in a water organic solvent mixed solution preferably a monohydric lower alcohol water mixed solution to adjust counterions. The term volume median particle size D as used herein means a particle size of which cumulative volume frequency calculated in the volume percentage accounts for 50 calculated from a smaller particle size which is measured in accordance with the method described in EXAMPLES.

The above mentioned azo iron complex is contained in an amount of preferably from 0.1 to 5 parts by weight and more preferably from 0.5 to 3 parts by weight based on 100 parts by weight of the resin binder.

A charge control agent other than the above mentioned azo iron complex may be properly used within the range that would not impair the effects of the present invention.

It is preferable that the toner of the present invention further contains a wax from the viewpoint of improving releasing property stability and fixing ability.

The wax includes aliphatic hydrocarbon waxes such as low molecular weight polypropylenes low molecular weight polyethylenes low molecular weight polypropylene polyethylene copolymers microcrystalline waxes paraffinic waxes and Fischer Tropsch wax and oxides thereof ester waxes such as carnauba wax montan wax and sazole wax and deacidified waxes thereof and fatty acid ester waxes fatty acid amides fatty acids higher alcohols metal salts of fatty acids and the like. Among them the aliphatic hydrocarbon waxes and the ester waxes are preferable from the viewpoint of improving releasing property and stability the ester waxes are more preferable and the carnauba wax is even more preferable from the viewpoint of improving fixing ability. These waxes may be contained alone or in a mixture of two or more kinds.

The wax has a melting point of preferably from 60 to 100 C. more preferably from 70 to 95 C. and even more preferably from 80 to 90 C. from the viewpoint of improving the low temperature fixing ability of the toner and dispersibility of the colorant.

The wax is contained in an amount of preferably 4 parts by weight or less more preferably from 0.5 to 3 parts by weight and even more preferably from 1 to 2.5 parts by weight based on 100 parts by weight of the resin binder from the viewpoint of improving durability of the carrier.

The toner of the present invention may appropriately further be subjected to an internal addition or external addition of an additive such as a colorant a fluidity improver an electric conductivity modifier an extender a reinforcing filler such as a fibrous substance an antioxidant an anti aging agent or a cleanability improver.

As the colorant all of dyes pigments and the like which are used as colorants for a toner can be used and carbon blacks Phthalocyanine Blue Permanent Brown FG Brilliant Fast Scarlet Pigment Green B Rhodamine B Base Solvent Red 49 Solvent Red 146 Solvent Blue 35 quinacridone carmine 6B isoindoline disazoyellow and the like can be used. The colorant is contained in an amount of preferably from 1 to 40 parts by weight and more preferably from 2 to 10 parts by weight based on 100 parts by weight of the resin binder. The toner of the present invention may be any of black toners and color toners.

The method for producing a toner may be any of known methods such as a kneading pulverization method an emulsion phase inversion method and a polymerization method and the kneading pulverization method is preferred because the production is facilitated. For example in the case of a pulverized toner produced by the kneading pulverization method a toner can be produced by homogeneously mixing a resin binder a charge control agent a colorant a wax and the like with a mixer such as a Henschel mixer thereafter melt kneading the mixture with a closed kneader a single screw or twin screw extruder or the like cooling pulverizing and classifying the product.

The external additive has an average particle size of preferably from 10 to 100 nm from the viewpoint of improving transferability preventing detachment and inhibiting aggregation of the toner and the external additives may be used alone or in a combination of two or more kinds.

In a case where two kinds of external additives are used in a combination it is preferable that an external additive having an average particle size of from 10 nm or more and less than 30 nm smaller external additive and an external additive having an average particle size of from 30 to 100 nm larger external additive are used in a combination from the viewpoint of providing fluidity and preventing the external additive from being embedded. The smaller external additive and the larger external additive are in a weight ratio i.e. smaller external additive larger external additive of preferably from 1 10 to 10 1 and more preferably from 1 5 to 5 1.

The external additive includes fine inorganic particles of silica alumina titania zirconia tin oxide zinc oxide and the like. Among them silica having a small specific gravity is preferred from the viewpoint of preventing the external additive from being embedded.

It is preferable that the silica is a hydrophobic silica which is subjected to a hydrophobic treatment from the viewpoint of environmental stability. The method for hydrophobic treatment is not particularly limited and the hydrophobic treatment agent includes hexamethyl disilazane HMDS dimethyl dichlorosilane DMDS silicone oil methyl triethoxysilane and the like. Among them hexamethyl disilazane and dimethyl dichlorosilane are preferable. The amount treated by the hydrophobic treatment agent is preferably from 1 to 7 mg mper surface area of the fine inorganic particles.

The external additive having an average particle size of from 10 to 100 nm is contained in an amount of preferably from 0.1 to 5 parts by weight and more preferably from 0.3 to 3 parts by weight based on 100 parts by weight of the toner matrix particles the toner before the external addition treatment . An external additive having an average particle size of less than 10 nm or an external additive having an average particle size exceeding 100 nm may be properly contained within the range that would not impair the effects of the present invention.

A mixer to be used upon the external addition of the external additive to the toner is preferably an agitator used in dry blending such as a high speed agitator such as a Henschel mixer or a Super Mixer or a V type blender. The external additive may be previously mixed and added in a high speed agitator or a V type blender or the external additives may be separately added.

The toner of the present invention has a volume median particle size D of preferably from 3 to 15 m and more preferably from 4 to 10 m. The term volume median particle size D as used herein means a particle size of which cumulative volume frequency calculated in the volume percentage accounts for 50 calculated from a smaller particle size.

The toner of the present invention as mentioned above contains a polyester having a reduced low molecular weight component and the low molecular weight component having a molecular weight of 1 000 or less contained in the tetrahydrofuran soluble component of the toner is contained in an amount of preferably 4.0 by weight or less more preferably 3.8 by weight or less and even more preferably 3.6 by weight or less of the entire soluble component.

The toner of the present invention has a storage modulus G at 50 C. in a frequency of 6.28 rad s of preferably from 3.0 10to 3.0 10Pa and more preferably from 4.0 10to 8.0 10Pa from the viewpoint of satisfying both of prevention of the external additive of the toner in the developer device from being embedded thereby maintaining a stable image density and low temperature fixing ability. The storage modulus of the toner can be adjusted with a raw material monomer of the resin binder or a low molecular weight component of the toner.

The tetrahydrofuran soluble component of the toner has a number average molecular weight of preferably from 2 000 to 5 000 and more preferably from 2 500 to 4 500 and a weight average molecular weight of preferably from 8 000 to 15 000 and more preferably from 9 000 to 14 000 from the viewpoint of preventing the external additive from being embedded maintaining image density and improving low temperature fixing ability.

The toner of the present invention has a softening point of preferably from 90 to 120 C. and more preferably from 1000 to 110 C. from the viewpoint of low temperature fixing ability and durability of the toner. In addition the toner has a glass transition temperature of preferably from 50 to 70 C. and more preferably from 550 to 65 C. from the viewpoint of low temperature fixing ability and smearing property of the toner.

Since the toner of the present invention has excellent low temperature fixing ability and favorable transferability and further has excellent smearing property the toner is suitably used in an apparatus for forming fixed images according to a non contact fusing method such as oven fusing or flash fusing. The toner can be suitably used also in an apparatus for forming fixed image using a high speed having a linear speed of from 800 mm sec or more and preferably from 1 000 to 3 000 mm sec. Here the term linear speed refers to a processing speed for an apparatus for forming fixed images which is determined by a paper feeding speed at a fixing member. Incidentally when the toner of the present invention is used in an apparatus for forming fixed images according to a contact fusing method hot offset is generated so that the toner is not suitably used as a toner for contact fusing.

In addition a method for development of the toner of the present invention is not particularly limited and the toner can be suitably used also in an apparatus for forming fixed images according to a non contact development method because an external additive is less likely to be embedded in the toner surface so that the toner has excellent triboelectric chargeability transferability and durability.

The toner of the present invention can be used directly as a toner for monocomponent development or mixed with a carrier to prepare a two component developer.

In the present invention as the carrier a carrier having a low saturation magnetization which has a weaker contact with substrates such as a photoconductor roller is preferable from the viewpoint of the image properties. The carrier has a saturation magnetization of preferably from 40 to 100 Am kg and more preferably from 50 to 90 Am kg. The carrier has a saturation magnetization of preferably 100 Am kg or less from the viewpoint of controlling the hardness of the magnetic brush and retaining the tone reproducibility and the carrier has a saturation magnetization of preferably 40 Am kg or more from the viewpoint of preventing the carrier from being adhered and toner dust.

As a core material for the carrier any of a known material can be used without any particular limitation. The core material includes for example ferromagnetic metals such as iron cobalt and nickel alloys and compounds such as magnetite hematite ferrite copper zinc magnesium ferrite manganese ferrite and magnesium ferrite glass beads and the like. Among them magnetite ferrite copper zinc magnesium ferrite and manganese ferrite are preferable from the viewpoint of triboelectric chargeability.

The surface of the carrier can be coated with a resin from the viewpoint of preventing the formation of toner scumming on the carrier. The resin for coating the surface of the carrier may vary depending upon the toner materials and includes for example fluororesins such as polytetrafluoroethylenes monochlorotrifluoroethylene polymers and poly vinylidene fluorides silicone resins such as polydimethyl siloxane polyesters styrenic resins acrylic resins polyamides polyvinyl butyrals aminoacrylate resins and the like. These resins can be used alone or in a combination of two or more kinds. The method of coating a core material with a resin is not particularly limited and includes for example a method of dissolving or suspending a coating material such as a resin in a solvent and applying the solution or suspension to be deposited on a core material a method of simply blending in the state of powder and the like.

In a two component developer obtained by mixing the toner with a carrier the toner is contained in an amount of preferably from 0.5 to 10 parts by weight and more preferably from 2 to 8 parts by weight based on 100 parts by weight of the carrier from the viewpoint of fluidity of the developer and reduction of background fogging and generation of dust.

The following examples further describe and demonstrate embodiments of the present invention. The examples are given solely for the purposes of illustration and are not to be construed as limitations of the present invention.

The softening point refers to a temperature at which half of the sample flows out when plotting a downward movement of a plunger of a flow tester commercially available from Shimadzu Corporation CAPILLARY RHEOMETER CFT 500D against temperature in which a sample is prepared by applying a load of 1.96 MPa thereto with the plunger and extruding a 1 g sample through a nozzle having a die pore size of 1 mm and a length of 1 mm while heating the sample so as to raise the temperature at a rate of 6 C. min.

The glass transition temperature refers to a temperature of an intersection of the extension of the baseline of equal to or lower than the temperature of the maximum endothermic peak and the tangential line showing the maximum inclination between the kick off of the peak and the top of the peak which is determined using a differential scanning calorimeter DSC 210 commercially available from Seiko Instruments Inc. by raising its temperature to 200 C. cooling the sample from this temperature to 0 C. at a cooling rate of 10 C. min and thereafter raising the temperature of the sample at a heating rate of 10 C. min.

The acid values are measured as prescribed by a method of JIS K0070 provided that only a measurement solvent is changed from a mixed solvent of ethanol and ether as prescribed in JIS K0070 to a mixed solvent of acetone and toluene acetone toluene 1 1 volume ratio 

Specifically a sample is placed in an aluminum ring having a diameter of 40 mm and molded with a pressure of 500 kgf cm and a specific volume resistivity is measured with a resistivity meter LORESTA AP commercially available from DIA Instruments Co. Ltd. according to a 4 terminal 4 probe constant electric current application method. Here the room temperature is from 20 to 25 C. and relative humidity is from 40 to 60 .

A temperature of maximum endothermic peak of the heat of fusion obtained by raising the temperature of a sample to 200 C. using a differential scanning calorimeter DSC 210 commercially available from Seiko Instruments Inc. cooling the sample from this temperature to 0 C. at a cooling rate of 10 C. min and thereafter raising the temperature of the sample at a heating rate of 10 C. min is referred to as a melting point.

The number average molecular weight and the weight average molecular weight are obtained from the molecular weight distribution determined by the gel permeation chromatography GPC according to the following method.

A toner is dissolved in tetrahydrofuran so as to have a concentration of 0.5 g 100 ml. Each of the resulting solution is then filtered with a fluororesin filter FP 200 commercially available from Sumitomo Electric Industries Ltd. having a pore size of 2 m to remove insoluble components to provide a sample solution.

Using the following measurement apparatus and analyzing column tetrahydrofuran is allowed to flow as an eluate at a rate of 1 ml per minute and the column is stabilized in a thermostat at 40 C. One hundred microliters of the sample solution is injected to the column to determine a molecular weight. The molecular weight of the sample is calculated on the basis of a calibration curve previously prepared. The calibration curve of the molecular weight is prepared by using several kinds of monodisperse polystyrenes A 500 5.0 10 A 1000 1.01 10 A 2500 2.63 10 A 5000 5.97 10 F 1 1.02 10 F 2 1.81 10 F 4 3.97 10 F 10 9.64 10 F 20 1.90 10 F 40 4.27 10 F 80 7.06 10 and F 128 1.09 10 each commercially available from Tosoh Corporation as standard samples.

The content of the low molecular weight component having a molecular weight of 1 000 or less contained in the tetrahydrofuran soluble component contained in the toner is obtained from an integral value of the molecular weight distribution obtained by the above mentioned determination.

The storage modulus is measured using a viscoelastometer rheometer Model RDA III commercially available from Rheometrics Scientific Inc. .

The internal temperature of the measurement apparatus is raised to 120 C. and 1 g of a toner is then placed on the parallel plates. A molten toner is tightly adhered to the upper and lower plates. When Axal Force is 0 Gap is inputted.

The average particle size of the external additive refers to a number average particle size and particle sizes an average of length and breadth of 500 particles are measured from a photograph taken with a scanning electron microscope SEM and an average thereof is defined as an average particle size.

A 5 liter four neck flask equipped with a nitrogen inlet tube a dehydration tube a stirrer and a thermocouple were charged with raw material monomers listed in Table 1 and 19.5 g of an esterification catalyst dibutyltin oxide and the components were heated to 230 C. and allowed to react until a reaction percentage reached 90 . Further the reaction mixture was allowed to react at 8.3 kPa for 1 hour to provide each of resins A and D. Here the reaction percentage as used in the present invention is a value obtained by the formula of amount of reaction water mol theoretical amount of generated water mol 100.

A 5 liter four neck flask equipped with a nitrogen inlet tube a dehydration tube a stirrer and a thermocouple were charged with raw material monomers listed in Table 1 2 g of a polymerization inhibitor hydroquinone and 19.5 g of an esterification catalyst dibutyltin oxide and the components were heated to 230 C. and allowed to react until a reaction percentage reached 90 . Further the reaction mixture was allowed to react at 8.3 kPa for 1 hour to provide a resin B.

A 5 liter four neck flask equipped with a nitrogen inlet tube a dehydration tube a stirrer and a thermocouple were charged with BPA PO BPA EO and isophthalic acid each listed in Table 1 and 19.5 g of an esterification catalyst dibutyltin oxide and the components were allowed to react at 230 C. for 5 hours and further at 8.3 kPa for 1 hour. The reaction mixture was cooled to 210 C. fumaric acid listed in Table 1 and 2 g of a polymerization inhibitor hydroquinone were added thereto. The mixture was allowed to react for 5 hours and thereafter the mixture was further allowed to react at 8.3 kPa until the reaction mixture reached a desired softening point to provide a resin C.

To 1 000 liters of water were added 2 387 g of 4 tert butyl 2 aminophenol and 450 g of a concentrated hydrochloric acid while stirring. Thereafter the reaction mixture was cooled to 0 C. and an aqueous sodium nitrite solution 34 by weight was added dropwise thereto to give a diazonium salt solution. Further to an aqueous solution previously prepared by dissolving 330 g of naphthol AS and 192 g of potassium hydroxide in 2 liters of water were added dropwise the above mentioned diazonium salt solution and butanol the precipitates were filtered and then washed with ion exchanged water to give 1 430 g of a wet cake.

To the wet cake was added 2.8 liters of a liquid mixture of 1 liter of butanol and 1.8 liters of water 105 g of a 45 by weight aqueous potassium hydroxide solution was then added thereto and the mixture was stirred at 90 C. for 1 hour. Further 141 g of a 35 by weight aqueous ferric sulfate solution was added dropwise thereto. Thereafter the mixture was refluxed at 100 C. for 6 hours to give 294 g of a charge control agent A. The charge control agent A represented by the formula Ia 

A resin binder and a charge control agent each listed in Table 2 2 parts by weight of a wax Carnauba Wax No. 1 commercially available from S. Kato CO. melting point 81 C. and 6 parts by weight of a carbon black NIPEX60 commercially available from Evonic Degussa Japan Co. Ltd. were added together and the components were mixed with a Henschel mixer for 60 seconds. The resulting mixture was melt kneaded with a twin screw extruder the melt kneaded mixture was cooled and roughly pulverized with a hammer mill to a size of 1 mm or so. The resulting roughly pulverized product was finely pulverized with an air jet pulverizer and the finely pulverized product was classified to provide toner matrix particles having a volume median particle size D of 8.5 m.

One hundred parts by weight of the resulting toner matrix particles 0.9 parts by weight of a hydrophobic silica R972 commercially available from Nihon Aerosil Co. Ltd. hydrophobic treatment agent DMDS average particle size 16 nm and 1.0 part by weight of a hydrophobic silica NAX50 commercially available from Nihon Aerosil Co. Ltd. hydrophobic treatment agent HMDS average particle size 50 nm were mixed with a Henschel mixer for 3 minutes to provide a toner. The physical properties of the resulting toner are also shown together in Table 2.

Here the charge control agent T 77 commercially available from Hodogaya Chemical Industries Co. Ltd. used in Comparative Examples 1 to 5 is an azo iron complex represented by the following formula III 

Six parts by weight of the resulting toner and 94 parts by weight of a ferrite carrier volume average particle size 60 m saturation magnetization 68 Am kg were mixed together to provide a two component developer.

The resulting two component developer was loaded on a copy machine AR 505 commercially available from Sharp Corporation and adjustment was made so that the amount of toner would be 0.6 mg cm. Thereafter images at the stage before fixing were taken out to provide unfixed images. The unfixed images were fixed with an external fixing device a modified fixing device for an apparatus for forming fixed images according to a non contact fusing method Vario stream 9000 commercially available from Oce Printing Systems GmbH by sequentially raising the temperature on paper from 90 to 150 C. to provide fixed images. UNICEF Cellophane tape commercially available from MITSUBISHI PENCIL CO. LTD. width 18 mm JIS Z 1522 was adhered to the fixed images obtained at each fixing temperature the tape was pressed with a roller so as to apply a load of 500 g and the tape was then removed. The image densities before and after the removal of the tape were measured. The temperature on paper at which the ratio of the image density after removal of tape before removal of tape initially exceeds 90 is defined as the lowest fixing temperature and the low temperature fixing ability was evaluated. The lower the lowest fixing temperature the more excellent the low temperature fixing ability. Paper used in the fixing test was a paper Copy Bond SF 70NA 75 g m commercially available from Sharp Corporation. The results are shown in Table 3.

A two component developer obtained in the same manner as in Test Example 1 was loaded on an apparatus for forming fixed images according to a non contact development method Vario stream 9000 commercially available from Oce Printing Systems GmbH and a durability printing test was conducted at a print coverage of 9 a linear speed of 1 000 mm sec for 2 hours. Thereafter a durability printing test was conducted at a print coverage of 0.15 for 3 hours the printer was imperatively halted and the amount of the toner on a photoconductor To and the amount of the toner on paper Tp were weighed. Defining a value calculated by the formula of Tp To 100 as the transfer efficiency the transferability was evaluated. The higher the transfer efficiency the more excellent the transferability. The results are shown in Table 3.

Also image samples obtained immediately before the hard stop were collected and the image densities were measured with a calorimeter GretagMacbeth Spectroeye commercially available from GretagMacbeth CO. at 5 points of the printed portion of the fixed images and an average was calculated as an image density ID to evaluate image densities.

A two component developer obtained in the same manner as in Test Example 1 was loaded on an apparatus for forming fixed images according to a non contact development method Vario stream 9000 commercially available from Oce Printing Systems GmbH and printing was conducted at a print coverage of 9 and a linear speed of 1 000 mm sec to provide printouts. A 500 g stainless weight having a length of 3 cm a width of 3 cm and a height of 6.5 cm was placed on the printouts obtained and the weight was reciprocated over the printed characters at a speed of 0.5 m s. Supposing that one reciprocation was counted as once the smearing property was evaluated in accordance with the following evaluation criteria on the basis of the number of times at which a toner adhesion in a black banded state initially appeared in non printing portions. The larger the number of times the more excellent the smearing property. The results are shown in Table 3.

A two component developer obtained in the same manner as in Test Example 1 was loaded on an apparatus for forming fixed images according to a non contact development method Vario stream 9000 commercially available from Oce Printing Systems GmbH and printing was conducted at a print coverage of 9 for 2 hours. Thereafter the developer was taken out of the developer vessel and the triboelectric charges were measured with a q m meter 500 mesh being used commercially available from Epping GmbH. The triboelectric chargeability was evaluated in accordance with the following evaluation criteria. The larger the absolute value of the triboelectric charges the more excellent the triboelectric chargeability. The results are shown in Table 3.

A two component developer obtained in the same manner as in Test Example 1 was loaded on an apparatus for forming fixed images according to a non contact development method Vario stream 9000 commercially available from Oce Printing Systems GmbH and printing was conducted at a print coverage of 9 for 2 hours. Thereafter the developer was taken out from a developer vessel and the presence or absence of the adhesion of the toner dust to the developer vessel was visually judged and the toner dust was evaluated in accordance with the following evaluation criteria. The smaller the amount of the toner dust the more excellent the toner dust. The results are shown in Table 3.

It can be seen from the above results that the toners of Examples 1 to 5 are excellent in both low temperature fixing ability and triboelectric chargeability and are excellent in smearing property and effective in the reduction of toner dust and maintain favorable transfer efficiency and image density even in durability printing at a low print coverage as compared to the toners of Comparative Examples 1 to 8.

The toner for electrostatic image development of the present invention is suitably used in developing latent images formed in for example electrophotography an electrostatic recording method an electrostatic printing method or the like.

The present invention being thus described it will be obvious that the same may be varied in many ways. Such variations are not to be regarded as a departure from the spirit and scope of the invention and all such modifications as would be obvious to one skilled in the art are intended to be included within the scope of the following claims.

