---

title: Electrically conducting microporous frameworks
abstract: Electrically conducting vanadium arsenate or vanadium phosphate materials are described. The materials include a vanadium arsenate or vanadium phosphate framework structure about organic template and water molecules which may be removed to leave a microporous structure. The three-dimensional vanadium framework may provide electronic conductivity, while the extra-framework constituents may provide ionic conductivity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08852464&OS=08852464&RS=08852464
owner: Virginia Tech Intellectual Properties, Inc.
number: 08852464
owner_city: Blacksburg
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20091110
---
The subject matter of this application was made with support from the United States Government under Grant No. DMR 0943971 from the National Science Foundation. The United States Government has certain rights in the invention.

This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 112 848 filed Nov. 10 2008 the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated in its entirety by reference herein.

This invention relates to organically templated three dimensional framework compositions consisting of transition metal polyhedra with arsenate or phosphate tetrahedra particularly vanadium containing compositions and properties and uses thereof.

Electrically conducting zeotype frameworks offer a new approach to energy storage technologies. In particular they offer new opportunities in electrical charge storage applications such as in ultracapacitors battery electrodes and ion conducting membranes. Tailored materials with mono dispersed pore size distribution and large pore density per unit volume have the potential to provide optimal electrical energy storage in terms of both energy density and power density.

High surface area activated carbonaceous materials are most often used for electrical energy storage but these materials possess random pore sizes and broad distributions leading to sub optimal charge packing. Nano carbon material promises better pore size and distribution over mesoporous carbon but has proved difficult to produce in bulk. While nanostructured materials such as zeolites show more efficient packing than the above materials they have previously been produced only in electrically insulating forms.

The development of different options for improving electrical energy storage capabilities is essential to meet the current and future requirements for efficient use of electrical energy in applications. New materials are needed to improve charge storage capabilities by increasing both the energy and the power densities as well as achieving faster recharge times. Electrically conducting framework materials are crucial to the development of new charge storage materials. Porous electrically conducting frameworks allow for high storage densities and for new strategies in which materials simultaneously exploit multiple charge storage and mobility mechanisms. Particularly desirable are microporous zeotype electrically conducting frameworks where pore sizes range from sub nanometer to 2 nm and are roughly the size of hydrated and or solvated ions and small molecules.

Ultracapacitors are of particular interest in the field of electrical energy storage devices. The capacitance of the electrical double layer EDLC forms the basis for ultracapacitors where the layer is formed between mobile ions in an electrolyte and an electrically conducting plate. The capacitance per unit area is high due to the short charge separation distance characteristic of ionic double layers typically atomic in scale. The high attainable capacitance forms the basis for widespread similar electrolytic capacitors. An ultracapacitor adds to this a large effective area of the capacitor plate by employing a porous conducting medium as electrode. The capacitance values correlate with pore dimension and ion size with pore size distribution and pore density per unit volume. Thus an electrically conducting microporous zeotype material would function as an ultracapacitor material. A conducting zeotype material may also have additional uses as a novel semiconductor material for electronics and optics applications in addition to properties and applications already known for zeolities and zeotypes such as catalysis sorption separation ion exchange membranes etc.

Therefore there is a need in the art for the development of conducting microporous zeotype materials for use as ultracapacitors in energy storage applications.

It is an object of the present invention to provide electrically conductive compositions having a vanadium arsenate or vanadium phosphate framework with tunnels and cavities. The tunnels and cavities of the frameworks of the compositions of the present invention may house water molecules and or organic cations. The water molecules and organic cations may also be replaced either in whole or in part by inorganic cations.

It is a further object of the present invention to provide methods for synthesizing electrically conductive compositions having a vanadium arsenate or vanadium phosphate framework. The methods of the present invention involve the mixing of vanadate with arsenate or phosphate reagents organic template water and optionally an acid.

It is a still further object of the present invention to provide media for charge storage applications chemical catalysis adsorption and separation reactions containing the compositions of the present invention. The compositions of the present invention can provide greater energy density for capacitors ultracapacitors battery electrodes and ion conducting membranes. The compositions are also useful for novel memory and electronic and or optoelectronic devices.

 Microporous is used in its common meaning and refers to materials having pore diameters less than 2 nm.

 Mixed conductor is used in its commonly understood meaning and refers to a material in which both electronic conduction and ionic conduction contribute to electrical conductivity.

 Zeolites are microporous aluminosilicate materials where the framework is formed by Al and Si tetrahedra and where the framework delineates channels and or tunnels that may intersect to yield cavities and pores that house extra framework constituents.

 Zeotype materials while not aluminosilicates are similar to zeolites wherein a framework delineates channels tunnels and cavities and pores that house extra framework constituents. In both zeolites and zeotypes the extra framework constituents present as part of the synthesis step may be exchanged after the initial synthesis step with other ions molecules.

In general embodiments of the present invention there are provided compositions that may act as mixed conductors including microporous mixed conductors vanadium arsenate mixed conductors vanadium phosphate mixed conductors and mixed conductors including a framework such as e.g. a vanadium arsenate framework which shows electronic conduction. The compositions of the present invention may also include a set of extra framework constituents such as e.g. extra framework constituents comprising an organic template and water extra framework which can be exchanged etc. which show ionic conductivity. Preferred examples of the compositions of the present invention are microporous vanadium arsenate and a microporous vanadium phosphate with microporous vanadium arsenate more preferred.

In embodiments of the invention where a vanadium arsenate framework is used an organoammonium template may be used as an organic template forming a mixed conductor. In certain embodiments the organoammonium template is piperazine. It is also contemplated that other organic templates besides organoammonium templates which produce electrically conducting vanadium arsenate may be used. In embodiments of the invention where a vanadium phosphate framework is used methenamine may be used as an organic template forming a mixed conductor. It is also contemplated that other organic templates besides methenamine which produce an electrically conducting vanadium phosphate may be used.

For the microporous materials of the present invention preferably the microporous material has pore sizes ranging from about 0.3 nm to about 0.7 nm more preferably pore sizes of about 0.5 nm. However it is also contemplated that the microporous materials may have smaller or larger pore sizes. The term pore size as used herein may be applied interchangeably to the size of tunnels and cavities in the compositions of the present invention and these size ranges also apply to tunnels and cavities as presented herein.

In certain embodiments of the compositions of the invention the compositions are crystalline vanadium compositions that include as determined by x ray diffraction a three dimensional covalently bonded framework made up of VOpolyhedra VOoctahedra and AsOtetrahedra. The connectivity of the covalently bonded three dimensional framework generates tunnels and cavities that may have a size range of about 0.3 nm to about 0.7 nm. In other embodiments of the present invention the AsOtetrahedra may be replaced with phosphate tetrahedra.

It is contemplated that the compositions of the present invention may have frameworks that contain defects in their structure e.g. frameworks that have deviations from a perfect crystal structure. These defects may arise during the normal synthesis process. It is recognized that these defects may affect the conductivity of the frameworks of the compositions of the present invention.

The tunnels and cavities of the compositions of matter of the present invention may house organic cations and or water molecules. Organic cations that are contemplated include cyclic di or multi amines di or multi amines or amines e.g. NH CH NH NH R NH or R NH where R may be an alkyl or an aryl group . In certain embodiments when the composition includes AsOtetrahedra the organic cation is piperazine. In certain other embodiments when the composition includes phosphate tetrahedra the organic cation is methenamine.

It is also contemplated that the tunnels and cavities of the compositions of the matter of the present invention may house inorganic cations such as Li Na K Rb and Cs. Organic cations in the framework may be exchanged through intercalation reactions where single crystals or pressed powder pellets of the compositions of the present invention are placed in aqueous salt solutions containing the inorganic cation of interest. It is further contemplated that the tunnels and cavities of the compositions of the present invention may house both organic and inorganic cations within the same composition.

In another embodiment of the complexes of the present invention the complexes are represented by Formula I AsVVVVO CNH CNH CNH HO HO OH I 

As with the embodiments described above the tunnels and cavities of Formula I may house organic and or inorganic cations.

In another embodiment the compositions of the present invention are vanadium oxide arsenate compositions having been characterized by a framework having a generic formula characterized by Formula II AsVVVVO II 

In this embodiment of the invention the tunnels and cavities of the framework formed by Formula II may house inorganic and organic cations as is described above. In a preferred embodiment the framework formed by Formula II houses piperazine or piperazinium cations and water molecules.

In yet another embodiment the compositions of the present invention are represented by Formula III AsVVVVO CNH CNH CNH HO HO OH Cation III 

In this embodiment some or all of the organic cations have been replaced by inorganic cations as is described above.

By way of example only a structural representation of an electrically conducting vanadium arsenate structure of the present invention obtained from single crystal x ray diffraction is shown in . The structure is shown looking down the crystallographic a axis as well as looking down the 111 direction . The structure crystallizes in a cubic space group and a preferred embodiment is for the structure to be solved in the space group Im m.

A preferred example of a microporous framework for use in the invention is a microporous framework that can intercalate various other ions and or molecules into the framework such as e.g. alkali alkali earth metal cations amines di or multi amines cyclic mono di or multi amines and alcohols.

The frameworks of the present invention will possess favorable electrical properties which can be characterized using techniques well known in the art. Certain non limiting examples of techniques which can be used can be found in the Examples set forth below. An example of electrical characterization is the dependence of resistance on the temperature of the framework and any constituents present.

Without wishing to be bound by theory the compositions of the present invention may demonstrate mixed conductivity e.g. both ionic and electronic conductivity. For example there may be constructed a vanadium arsenate that is a mixed conductor having electronic conductivity due to the vanadium arsenate framework and ionic conductivity due to organic cations and water housed inside the tunnels and cavities.

The present invention also contemplates methods for the synthesis of the compositions of the present invention. In preferred embodiments the reagents used in the synthesis of the compositions of the present invention include at least one organic template such as e.g. cyclic di or multi amines di or multi amines or amines e.g. NH CH NH NH R NH or R NH at least one vanadium source e.g. V VO NHVO NaVO KVO at least one tetrahedral linker e.g. PO AsO and or at least one metal cation e.g. alkali or alkali earth metals and or an acid source. Preferably the synthesis method uses a solution based route and may be a hydrothermal synthesis or a solvothermal synthesis. The reaction mixture may be incubated at about 373 K to about 513 K for a period of 42 to 108 hours. However shorter or longer reaction periods are also contemplated. In certain embodiments where an arsenate composition is formed the temperature is 453 K. In certain embodiments where a phosphate composition is formed the reaction temperature may be about 473 K.

In certain methods of the present invention vanadium arsenate compositions are synthesized using a reaction mixture having reagents in the following molar ratios 

In certain other methods of the present invention vanadium arsenate compositions are synthesized using a reaction mixture having reagents in the following molar ratios 

In certain other methods of the present invention vanadium phosphate compositions are synthesized using a reaction mixture having reagents in the following molar ratios 

Although other synthesis processes are contemplated in certain embodiments the vanadium and arsenate oxides are added to the reaction mixture first followed by organic template hydrochloric acid and then water. In other embodiments piperazine and HCl are added first with some of the water followed by V and VO and then AsO. However other methods which involve the addition of reagents in different orders are also within the scope of the present invention.

The crystalline structures of the compositions of the present invention may be determined using techniques well known in the art such as by single crystal x ray diffraction. Other properties of the compositions may also be measured such as an elemental analysis infra red spectra thermogravimetric analysis and other tests for other properties as are known in the art.

In other embodiments the present invention provides electrical energy storage media containing the electrically conducting zeolite like frameworks of the invention. Electrical energy storage such as e.g. ultracapacitors energy applications e.g. in ion exchange membrane technologies and catalysis and other uses are contemplated by the invention.

The compositions of the present invention may significantly improve a wide variety of areas such as charge storage applications chemical catalysis adsorption separation reactions etc. As an electrically conducting framework possessing high pore density per unit volume and uniform pore size distribution the compositions of the present invention can provide greater energy density for capacitors ultracapacitors battery electrodes and ion conducting membranes. Manipulating the charge state of these compositions also creates an electrically active framework useable to control catalytic adsorption or separation processes. The compositions are also useful for novel memory and electronic and or optoelectronic devices.

The compositions of the present invention can be formed into various shapes such as films and pellets formed of pressed powder. The powder form of the material may be pressed into a form with the help of a press as is well known in the art typically through the application of mega to giga Pascals of pressure. The pressed shape may be varied as is well known in the art. The powdered form of the compositions of the present invention may also be pressed on a flexible or solid substrate as is well known in the art e.g. through screen printing type applications. In certain embodiments a pressed film can be formed the film can then be electrically contacted and then the whole device encapsulated. Typically and is well known in the art the film may be bottom contacted with encapsulation from the top to minimally impact device characteristics.

The following examples are meant to illustrate some of the embodiments of the present invention and should not be considered to limit the scope and spirit of the invention as is set forth in the claims below.

The synthesis and characterization of a novel microporous material with electrically conducting properties is shown. This inventive example is distinct from existing microporous or zeotype materials which are electrically insulating. This new material can significantly improve a wide variety of areas such as charge storage applications chemical catalysis adsorption separation reactions etc. As an electrically conducting framework possessing high pore density per unit volume and uniform pore size distribution the material described in this example can provide greater energy density for capacitors ultracapacitors battery electrodes and ion conducting membranes. Manipulating the charge state of this material also creates an electrically active framework useable to control catalytic adsorption or separation processes. This material also is useful for novel memory and electronic and or optoelectronic devices.

In this example a novel organically templated vanadium arsenate was synthesized and characterized. The material is a microporous zeotype framework and the organic templates and water molecules are expelled from the framework under a thermal treatment as ascertained by thermogravimetric analysis. The framework is capable of exchanged reactions where template water is exchanged for various ions.

The electronic properties of the material were investigated. The as synthesized thermally treated and ion exchanged frameworks all show electronic characteristics that may be exploited for various applications ranging from electrical double layer capacitors battery electrodes catalysis etc.

A vanadium arsernate composition was synthesized using hydrothermal methods. Vanadium oxide arsenic pentoxide piperazine organic template hydrochloric acid and water were combined in the following ratios 

Optimal yields were obtained when the reactants were reacted at 433 K to 473 K at a time duration ranging from 2.5 days to 4.5 days. The preferred reaction temperature and times were 453 K and for 3 to 3.75 days. The yield was influenced by temperature time duration and reactant ratios. The order of addition also influenced the yield of the zeotype material which under optimal conditions achieved so far in this example was the major product. The optimal order was the V and As oxides first then the template HCl and finally the water.

The vanadium arsenate of this example may also be formed as the dominant product the percent yield based on vanadium starting material is in the range of 85 to 90 when the reactant ratios shown below are reacted using hydrothermal synthesis. Vanadium oxide vanadium metal arsenic pentoxide piperazine organic template hydrochloric acid and water were combined in the following ratios 

Optimal yields were obtained when the reactants were reacted at 433 K to 473 K at a time duration ranging from 2.5 days to 4.5 days. The preferred reaction temperature and times were 453 K and for 3 to 3.5 days.

A zeotype with the desired electrical characteristics did not form without the organic template present. Also other sources of vanadium and arsenic did not in this example yield this particular zeotype. Importantly the presence and amount of HCl appeared to be crucial. The zeotype material can be distinguished from other minor products as a dark colored cubic crystal.

Microprobe analysis and elemental analysis confirmed the presence of C H N V and As in the synthesized product oxygen content is obtained by difference . Infrared spectrum analysis showed characteristic frequencies associated with the organic template molecule and the water molecule. Thermogravimetric analysis indicated ease of loss of template and water ions from the framework. Single crystal X ray diffraction indicated the reproducibility of the reaction conditions. The framework was found to be stable up to 770 K and the template and water ions present in the as synthesized material could be exchanged with other cations.

Uniquely the zeotype material of Example 1 exhibited electronic conducting properties. B and C show the changes in the electronic properties for the as synthesized material thermally treated material e.g. framework only and material intercalated e.g. with K . The K exchanged framework shows interesting electrochemical characteristics and useful properties for e.g. electrodes.

Current voltage I V curves were obtained on single crystals with two contacts and resistance values measured. Resistivity was calculated based on the resistance values measured and the sample dimensions. Typical sample dimensional were cubes with a side of 50 micrometer. Conductivity values were obtained from the resistivity values.

Samples were thermally treated to 573 K under a flow of Ngas. The thermal treatment expels the organic template and water molecules out of the framework. The temperature of the thermal treatment was chosen from the thermogravimetric analysis data. I V curves were obtained on single crystals with two contacts and conductivity values extracted from the data. Samples were measured before thermal treatment and the conductivity before heating was roughly 20 times greater than after heating.

The synthesized zeotype framework of this Example shows temperature activated electrical conduction. Exchange reactions e.g. with alkali cations show that certain ions can efficiently replace template molecules used in the synthesis of the inventive framework. Further the exchanged frameworks sustain ion conduction. Applications for uptake conduction and release of ions include e.g. ultracapacitors of high energy density and battery technology. The conducting exchanged zeotype shows electrochemical reactions occurring on the ions under applied potential where the framework functions as an electrode. That capability is useable in electrically controlled catalysis in electrically activated separation and in battery technology.

The zeolite like materials of the present Example present high effective area due to the unusually dense and regular network of channels and pores defined by the crystal structure. Pore dimensions in microporous zeolites are influenced by the synthetic conditions allowing control over the pore size and its distribution. The double layer concept carries over to a zeolite like material. A positive charge residing in a zeolite pore may induce a distribution of compensating charges from electrons in a framework such as a framework shown in . In this example the double layer separation is as usual atomic in scale leading to high capacitance in this geometry. However for zeolite like materials to serve as EDLC charge storage units a framework is needed that supports electronic conductivity such as an oxo vanadium arsenate zeolite like material.

The oxo vanadium arsenate of this Example was synthesized through hydrothermal methods. The 3 dimensional framework of this material as obtained by single crystal x ray diffraction is depicted in and delineates channels that run down the 3 crystallographic directions. Extra framework constituents here the organic template organoammonium cation and water omitted from the figure for clarity are situated in the channels which intersect along the diagonals of the cube. The framework shown in is generated from idealized coordinates for the framework atoms in the space group Im m. The structure exhibits disorder potentially influencing the measured electrical characteristics. The presence of the organic template is crucial for the isolation of this particular material. The material was microporous with accessible pore dimension of 0.5 nm. The extra framework constituents within the pores of the as synthesized material were removable by heating under an inert atmosphere or through intercalation reactions. Thermogravimetric analysis indicates the temperatures at which the extra framework constituents were expelled recorded as a loss in weight of the sample. Weight loss started around 340 K and by 370 K a considerable weight loss had occurred attributed to the loosely held water inside the pores. A second weight loss occurred around 470 K and a third around 600 K attributed to tightly held water and the organoammonium template inside the pores respectively. Above 600 K the framework pores were void leaving an empty framework which was stable up to 770 K.

The zeolite like material in this example exhibited mixed conductivity ionic due to the extra framework constituents and electronic due to the framework. We investigated the contributions and interplay of the parallel ionic and electronic conduction pathways through measurement of the electrical conductivity as a function of temperature T . Conductivity values are obtained from electrical resistance measurements on single crystals contacted with silver epoxy. The measured room temperature conductivity of a cube with 50 m edge is 3.3 10Ohmcm. The contribution of the ionic conductivity ion may be obtained by subtracting the electronic conductivity el due to the empty framework from the total conductivity tot because both the parallel electronic and ionic conductivities contributed to tot attributable respectively to the framework and the extra framework constituents here water plus organoammonium ions . We plotted the various as log vs T . Initially ion triangle increased as T increased but around 380 K the trend leveled off. Indeed ion was influenced by the loss of extra framework ions resulting in a decrease in protonic conduction and a hydration dependent change in ion mobility. Deriving reliable values of ion above 380 K was further influenced by the fact that at higher T el eventually dominated tot. Reliable measurements of ion extended to 420 K only although ion was obtained up to 465 K. In short for T 380K the measured tot was dominated by the electronic contribution while at low T tot was dominated by the ionic contribution. The decrease in water and organoammonium ions at the higher T influenced el as el then within the accuracy of the data increased above the value obtained for the full framework. Hence both conduction mechanisms were interdependent as expected if the presence of extra framework ions led to more localized electronic states reducing the mobility.

To access electronic transport measurements were performed on the empty framework namely material where the extra framework constituents were expelled from the pores under a thermal treatment. As mentioned above when the material was heated up to 600 K the extra framework constituents here water plus organoammonium were expelled yielding an empty framework. The framework was back filled with N and kept under an overpressure of N to avoid reoccupation of the channels with water for subsequent measurements. We observed el increasing exponentially with increasing T indicative of non metallic conduction. The T dependence did not follow standard expressions for 1 2 or 3 dimensional Mott variable range hopping or for activation across an energy gap excluding these known mechanisms of electron transport even when accounting for the effective dimensionality 1 2 or 3 of electron dynamics in the framework. Electronic conductivity in the material is likely influenced by coupling to the ionic degrees of motion with polaron like contribution.

Next we investigated the ionic contribution defined as ion tot el. For the T dependence of ion we plotted data up to 420 K. Above 380 K ion saturated to a near constant value as extra framework constituents water plus organoammonium are expelled from the framework. A simple Arrhenius activated model of ionic transport did not fit well. A better fit was obtained upon considering channeling of ions through a sublattice of attachment sites in the framework through a mechanism that at least includes phonon assisted hopping. Theoretically ion then obeys T ion exp E kT where Edenotes a characteristic activation energy required for ion hopping from attachment site to attachment site see . This relation was borne out experimentally with E 0.50 eV and indeed physically led to an acceptable picture of ion conduction in zeolite like materials where channels and attachment sites can be identified within the framework.

The vanadium framework of this example was robust towards intercalation. The organoammonium cation was exchangeable with inorganic cations and e.g. the K exchanged framework exhibited no change in its crystalline framework as determined by single crystal x ray diffraction. The robustness of the framework coupled with the electronic characteristics observed yield a good candidate for EDLC applications. In a capacitor the stored energy U is expressed by U C V QV where C is the capacitance Q the stored charge and V the voltage. A high Q per material volume is an advantage realized by the high pore density in a zeolite like material. Equivalently U increases when C increases and a high C is realized in zeolite like EDLCs by the electrical double layer storage and high effective area. Thus an electrically conducting zeolite like material would provide favorable U i.e. substantially increased .

Referring to which is a schematic diagram of an EDLC the two frameworks P N in this Example are two conducting vanadium arsenate frameworks attached to an external voltage source V. An ion membrane is located in between permeable to the electrolyte ions. Framework P is positively charged and hosts negative ions inside its structure. Framework N is negatively charged and hosts positive ions inside its structure. In series frameworks P N form a storage capacitor C. Charging and discharging in principle does not consume material promising the many charge discharge cycles inherent in the capacitor concept. Preliminary calculations of energy stored in this vanadium arsenate structure indicate a factor of 5 to 8 increase in Q and C per material volume over mesoporous carbon Pandolfo and Hollenkamp J. Power Sources 157 11 2006 Huang et al. Angew Chem. Int. Ed. 47 520 2008 . Indeed the effective area per unit volume of material is approximated by 6p D where p denotes the fraction of pore volume to total material volume and D denotes the average pore diameter. In the microporous vanadium arsenate with a pore diameter of 0.5 nm p is higher and D is smaller than in mesoporous carbon resulting in a substantial increase in C and Q. Preliminary capacitance measurements validate the calculated 8 fold increase.

A vanadium phosphate composition was synthesized using hydrothermal methods. Ammonium vanadate phosphoric acid methenamine organic template and water were combined in the following ratios 

Optimal yields were obtained when the reactants were reacted at 473 K at a time duration ranging from 42 to 54 hours.

The vanadium phosphate composition synthesized in this Example was measured and showed an electronic conductivity lower than that of the arsenate composition of Example 1 by a factor of about 1.2 to about 1.7.

