---

title: Method and device for releasably latching a water vessel to a line
abstract: A method and device to permit a water vessel to releasably capture a line. The water vessel may include a step cutout portion to receive a line capturing device. The line capturing device includes a device housing having a capturing notch and a pivotal guide arm. The guide arm may be pivoted to a deployed position. When presented with a line, a water vessel with the line-capturing device may capture the line by deploying the guide arm to guide the line into the notch, where the line is releasably latched. Also included is a system for towing a smaller water vessel to a parent vessel, the smaller water vessel including a device for capturing a line. The line may be attached at one end to the parent vessel.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07975638&OS=07975638&RS=07975638
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07975638
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090211
---
The following description was made in the performance of official duties by employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the claimed invention may be manufactured used licensed by or for the United States Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon.

The following description relates generally to a method and apparatus for the releasable latching of a water vessel to a line.

Larger parent ships often recover smaller surface water vessels such as manned or unmanned surface water vessels USVs . Once recovered by the parent ship servicing operations on the smaller vessels may be performed. Typically the recovery of a smaller vessel is accomplished by driving the smaller vessel alongside a stationary parent ship and lifting the smaller vessel by davit into the parent ship. Alternatively the smaller water vessel may be driven up a ramp into the larger ship.

Traditional methods of capturing smaller surface water vessels can cause damage to the hull of the smaller vessel. For example some USVs weigh about 20 000 pounds or more and are made from materials such as aluminum and the like. A capturing method that for example requires the USV to be driven into a parent ship in an uncontrolled manner can cause damage to the hull resulting in expensive repairs and loss of operation. Similarly smaller vessels may incur damage when driven alongside a parent ship prior to being lifted onto the ship.

In one aspect the invention is a device for releasably capturing a line for the recovery of a water vessel. In this aspect the device includes a housing having a line capturing notch. The line capturing notch has a top lip portion and a lower lip portion. The device further includes a hinged guide arm for guiding a line within the housing the hinged guide arm pivotally connected to the housing wherein the hinged guide arm is pivotable between a stowed position and a deployed position. In the deployed position the guide arm forms a continuous extension of the lower lip portion. According to the invention the device includes a latching mechanism within the housing for latching the line within the housing.

In another aspect the invention is a water vessel for releasably capturing a line. The water vessel has a hull body having a bow end and a stern end. In this aspect a line capturing device is attached to the hull body at the bow end. The line capturing device has a housing having a line capturing notch the line capturing notch having a top lip portion and a lower lip portion. In this aspect the line capturing device further includes a hinged guide arm for guiding a line within housing the hinged guide arm pivotally connected to the housing. The hinged guide arm is pivotable between a stowed position and a deployed position and in the deployed position the guide arm forms a continuous extension of the lower lip portion. The line capturing device further includes a latching mechanism within the housing for latching the line within the housing.

In another aspect the invention is a method of releasably capturing a line in open water. The method includes the providing of a water vessel on the open water the water vessel having a hull body having a bow end and an aft end. In this aspect the water vessel includes a line capturing device having a housing attached to the hull body at the bow end. The method further includes the presenting of a line in the body of water the directing of the water vessel bow first towards the line and the guiding of the line into the line capturing device. In this aspect the method further includes the latching of the line within the housing of the line capturing device.

In yet another aspect the invention is a water vessel for capturing a line. The water vessel includes a hull body having a stern end and a bow end. The bow end of the hull body comprises a step cutout bordered by a surrounding bow surface. The step cutout has a first substantially triangular bow surface within the hull body and a second substantially triangular bow surface within the hull body.

In another aspect the invention is a system for towing a smaller water vessel to a parent vessel. The system includes a parent vessel having an attached line extending from the parent vessel and a smaller water vessel having a line capturing device. In this aspect the line capturing device includes a housing having a line capturing notch. The notch has a top lip portion and a lower lip portion. The line capturing device also includes a hinged guide arm for guiding a line within housing. The hinged guide arm is pivotally connected to the housing at which the hinged guide arm is pivotable between a stowed position and a deployed position. In the deployed position the guide arm forms a continuous extension of the lower lip portion. In this aspect the line capturing device further includes a latching mechanism within the housing at the line capturing notch wherein the latching mechanism clamps the line thereby attaching the smaller water vessel to the parent vessel.

In order to provide a proper fit the first and second planar surfaces and of device have shapes and dimensions that match mating cutout surfaces and shown in . Surfaces and are substantially triangular. The dimensions h d and w of the hull insertable line capturing device substantially match the dimensions of cutout surfaces and . The ratio of the height h to the depth d to the width w may be about 20 21 25. In one particular embodiment the device has a height h of about 27.5 inches a depth d of about 29 inches and a width w of about 34.5 inches. Therefore in this embodiment the cutout surfaces and would have substantially similar height width and depth values. As outlined above the first and second planar and substantially triangular surfaces and include respective connection plates and for connecting the device to a mating connector within the hull at surfaces and . Known attachment mechanisms such as screws bolts adhesives and the like may be used to attach the connection plates and to mating connectors at cutout surfaces and . As outlined above with respect surfaces and depending on the application the hull cutout surfaces and may have shapes other than substantially triangular such as for example a rounded bilge hull shape.

The positioning of the lower end below the waterline allows the guide to scoop up any line floating at the surface of the water or below the surface . During line capturing operations the water vessel may pitch and heave resulting in the guide bobbing above and below the water surface . Thus a line that is suspended above the surface as shown at may also be guided up by the guide arm into the device these circumstances. Alternatively the line at the surface below the surface or above the surface may contact the vessel at the bow end at or above the device . In these situations the downward slope of the bow may itself guide the line into the device . Alternatively the line may enter the device directly without guidance from the guide arm or the bow surface. It is preferred that the line may be preferably presented at an angle of about 45 degrees to about 90 degrees relative to the direction of motion X of the watercraft. However the line may be presented at other angles outside this range. Also when presented above the water the line may be suspended by an appropriate device in a clothes line manner at a height of about 0.5 ft to about 2.5 ft above the water. As shown the guide arm has a smooth profile to ensure that the line is not snagged on the guide arm while it is being scooped up off the water along the length of the guide arm . To withstand strong forces the guide arm along with other elements of the line capturing device may be made from sturdy materials including metals such as titanium for example.

Similar to the embodiment of the positioning of the lower end at or below the waterline allows the guide to scoop up any line floating at or below the surface of the water. During line capturing operations the water vessel may pitch and heave resulting in the guide bobbing above and below the water surface. Thus a line that is suspended above the water may also be guided up by the guide arm in these circumstances. Alternatively in instances when the line strikes the vessel high at the bow end at or above the device the downward slope of the bow may itself guide the line into the device . Alternatively the line may be presented so that the line enters the device directly without guidance from the guide arm or the bow. During line capturing operations while travelling in direction X the water vessel may travel at any desired speed such as 3 knots to about 12 knots or greater. Also the guide arm has a generally smooth profile to ensure that the line is not caught on the guide during the capturing process. The guide arm may be made from sturdy materials such as titanium and the like.

Returning to the internal assembly of the hull insertable line capturing device further includes a sensor . Sensor is located about the apex of the substantially V shaped notch where the line is captured by a pawl as discussed below. The sensor is provided to detect the presence of a captured line. Upon detecting the captured line the sensor sends a signal to a vessel control indicating that a line has been captured. This allows an operator of the water vessel to adjust the operation thereof.

At point the pawl and the release lever are attached to each other and not the inner housing plates and . Thus the pawl and the release lever are pivotable with respect to each other but freely movably within the housing to the extent that the connection at point allows. With respect to the attachment at point the attachment element such as the pivot pin extends all the way through to inner housing plates and . Thus movement of pawl with respect to the inner housing as well as the movement of the release lever with respect to the inner housing is restricted. The release lever can only pivot about point in the arc Rshown in . At point the pivot pin extends through the elongated slot of the pawl . Thus even though motion is restricted relative to the inner housing the pawl is slidable in direction X as well as pivotable in arc direction R. Because of the arrangement outlined above the pawl is predisposed under the force of gravity to be in a latching position as schematically shown in .

When manipulated the biased member affects the positioning of the gravity assisted locking pawl via the release lever . shows the three link arrangement with the pawl in a predisposed latched position. As shown in the release lever includes a camming surface at an elongated lower end. Depending on the positioning of the release lever an inner guide roller meshes with the camming surface . shows the inner guide roller engaged at the camming surface . In this position the release lever is prevented from rotating forward in the Ydirection and holds the pawl in a position so that gravitational forces bear down on the pawl maintaining the pawl in the latched position.

In operation as stated above the pawl is predisposed under the forces of gravity to be in a position that enables latching as shown in . The pawl relies on gravity and the force of the line for its actuation. When a line such as a cable or rope or the like is scooped up by the guide arm the line enters the inner housing at the substantially V shaped notch where the line contacts the pawl . When the pawl engages the line the pawl is displaced upwards rotating around the first pivot pin at until the line can pass between the lower edge of the pawl and the lower lip region of the housing directly below the pawl . After the line passes under the pawl the pawl is returned to the latched position by the force of its own weight. Subsequent to latching an operator may actuate the biasing arrangement via the actuator and the controller which then pivots the biased link downwards in a counterclockwise direction in the Rarc allowing the forward end of the release lever at to rotate upwards in a clockwise direction in arc Rabout pivot point . When this happens the pawl moves together with the release lever enabling the pawl to release the line .

Energy to accomplish the release of the line is supplied by the line itself. If there is no tension in the line then the pawl and release lever will not be rotated as described above and the line will not be released from the device even though the actuator prepares the pawl to release the line . Thus a slack line will not be released. This is desirable because a slack line if released may be run over by the parent or host vessel that extends the line for receiving the vessel carrying the device . It should be noted that the three link latching arrangement and and the substantially V shaped notch may be dimensioned to releasably capture a line of any desired size. In one particular embodiment the three link latching arrangement and the notch are dimensioned to capture a line having a diameter of about 0.375 inches to about 0.750 inches.

The water vessel as illustrated above includes a hull body having a bow end and an aft end . A line capturing device is attached to the hull body at the bow end. The line capturing device may have a housing having a substantially V shaped notch therein and a hinged guide arm pivotally attached to the housing. According to an embodiment of the invention the hinged guide arm is pivotable between a stowed position and a deployed position.

Step includes presenting a line in the body of water. See . As outlined above the line may be a rope a cable or the like and may be made from any desired material such as nylon for example. In one embodiment the line may be laid floating at or below the water surface. In another embodiment the line may be presented suspended above the water in a clothes line manner at a height for example of about 0.5 feet to about 2.5 feet above the surface of the water.

Step includes directing the water vessel bow first towards the line . During a line capturing process the water vessel may travel at various speeds including speeds of about 2 knot to about 12 knots. is an exemplary schematic illustration of a water vessel travelling in direction Z approaching a line extended by a parent vessel the line having a line direction . is essentially a schematic top view of . As shown the water vessel approaches the line direction so that travel direction Z forms an angle with the line direction . Angle may be any desired angle but may preferably be about 45 degrees to about 90 degrees.

Step includes guiding the line into the line capturing device . Because of the angled orientation of the deployed guide arm when the water vessel drives into the line the guide arm scoops the line up the smoothly profiled guide arm which forms a continuous lower lip portion with a lower lip of the substantially V shaped notch . As shown in in the deployed position the guide arm extends below the waterline which makes it possible for the guide arm to scoop a line floating in the water. If the water vessel is pitching and heaving in higher sea state conditions the location of the arm also allows for scooping of a line suspended above the water surface for example at about 0.5 ft to about 2.5 ft above the water. Alternatively in instances when the line strikes the vessel at the bow end at or above the device the downward slope of the bow may itself guide the line into the line capturing device . Alternatively the line may be presented directly at the V shaped notch and there may enter the device by being guided by the upper and lower lip portions.

Step includes the latching of the line within the housing. E and show the latching arrangement within devices and that enable the releasable latching of the line . As outlined above a gravity assisted pawl securely captures the line within the housing. Once the line is captured the water vessel may be tethered by the line or may be lifted onto a parent watercraft. According to an embodiment of the invention after the line is captured the water vessel is be towed onto a parent watercraft in a recovery process. After towing or when tethering is no longer desired an electric actuator associated with the latching arrangement may be triggered to release the line . The control of the actuator may be performed by an operator on the water vessel . Alternatively the operator may be at a remote location such as on land or in the air or on the parent vessel . As outlined above if there is no tension in the line then the pawl and release lever will not be rotated as described above and the line will not be released. Thus according to the method only a tensioned line is released.

What has been described and illustrated herein are preferred embodiments of the invention along with some variations. The terms descriptions and figures used herein are set forth by way of illustration only and are not meant as limitations. Those skilled in the art will recognize that many variations are possible within the spirit and scope of the invention which is intended to be defined by the following claims and their equivalents in which all terms are meant in their broadest reasonable sense unless otherwise indicated.

