---

title: Methods and systems for assessment of clinical infertility
abstract: Methods and computer-based systems for facilitating assessment of clinical infertility are provided. The methods and systems can be implemented to, for example, facilitate assessment of a subject for an in vitro fertilization treatment cycle, including determining probability of a live birth event. The methods and systems can be implemented to, for example, facilitate a determination of success implantation of embryos, selection of an optimal number of embryos to transfer, and determination of success in subsequent in vitro fertilization treatment cycles following an unsuccessful treatment cycle.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09458495&OS=09458495&RS=09458495
owner: The Board of Trustees of the Leland Stanford Junior University
number: 09458495
owner_city: Palo Alto
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090701
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Nos. 61 077 439 filed Jul. 1 2008 and 61 081 596 filed Jul. 17 2008 which applications are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

This invention was made with government support under federal grant nos. R01 GM067250 and R01 HD057970 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The United States Government has certain rights in this invention.

Reproductive failure is a serious problem that has been addressed clinically by various assisted reproductive technologies including in vitro fertilization IVF and embryo transfer ET . These procedures might be expected to yield exceptionally high conception rates as in vitro fertilization provides embryos that appear normal at a morphological level for transfer into a fully primed recipient. Despite these efforts the success rate of IVF ET is less than ideal. In the published data for IVF ET in the United States and Canada in 1994 there were 26 961 initiated cycles of standard IVF. Of these 86.2 led to retrieval and of these 90.2 led to a transfer. However the overall success rate in terms of clinical pregnancies was 22.7 per initiated cycle and a 29.1 pregnancy rate per transfer.

Additionally there appears to be a high incidence of early pregnancy loss after in vitro fertilization with a biochemical pregnancy rate of 18 and a spontaneous abortion rate of 27 . Thus it appears that the IVF technique has been well optimized but implantation failure may be the cause for a large number of losses with ET and this peri implantational loss is an area of potential improvement. A major factor in the success rate of various assisted reproductive technologies is endometrial receptivity a transient state that must be coordinated with embryo development to implantation competent blastocysts.

IVF is an expensive procedure and can be psychologically traumatic for a patient. Surgical procedures are required to collect eggs from a female for IVF and following fertilization further surgery is required to implant the fertilized eggs in the womb. The recipient must then wait for a period of time before it can be determined whether or not pregnancy has been established. In some cases pregnancy may never be achieved despite repeated attempts and these cases can represent a considerable expense to the patient and society both in financial and human terms.

Therefore until success rates of IVF can be improved it would be desirable to be able to identify recipients for whom IVF is unlikely to be successful prior to treatment so that such patients may avoid the above mentioned costs and trauma of the IVF procedure.

Methods and computer based systems for facilitating assessment of clinical infertility are provided. The methods and systems can be implemented to for example facilitate assessment of a subject for an in vitro fertilization treatment cycle including determining probability of a live birth event. The methods and systems can be implemented to for example facilitate a determination of success of implantation of embryos selection of an optimal number of embryos to transfer and determination of success in subsequent in vitro fertilization treatment cycles following an unsuccessful treatment cycle.

These and other objects advantages and features of the invention will become apparent to those persons skilled in the art upon reading the details of the invention as more fully described below.

Before the present embodiments are described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to particular embodiments described as such may of course vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting since the scope of the present invention will be limited only by the appended claims.

Where a range of values is provided it is understood that each intervening value to the tenth of the unit of the lower limit unless the context clearly dictates otherwise between the upper and lower limits of that range is also specifically disclosed. Each smaller range between any stated value or intervening value in a stated range and any other stated or intervening value in that stated range is encompassed within the invention. The upper and lower limits of these smaller ranges may independently be included or excluded in the range and each range where either neither or both limits are included in the smaller ranges is also encompassed within the invention subject to any specifically excluded limit in the stated range. Where the stated range includes one or both of the limits ranges excluding either or both of those included limits are also included in the invention.

Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. Although any methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice or testing of the present invention some potential and preferred methods and materials are now described. All publications mentioned herein are incorporated herein by reference to disclose and describe the methods and or materials in connection with which the publications are cited. It is understood that the present disclosure supercedes any disclosure of an incorporated publication to the extent there is a contradiction.

It must be noted that as used herein and in the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a cell includes a plurality of such cells and reference to the compound includes reference to one or more compounds and equivalents thereof known to those skilled in the art and so forth.

It is further noted that the claims may be drafted to exclude any optional element. As such this statement is intended to serve as antecedent basis for use of such exclusive terminology as solely only and the like in connection with the recitation of claim elements or the use of a negative limitation.

The publications discussed herein are provided solely for their disclosure prior to the filing date of the present application. Nothing herein is to be construed as an admission that the present invention is not entitled to antedate such publication by virtue of prior invention. Further the dates of publication provided may be different from the actual publication dates which may need to be independently confirmed.

The terms subject individual and patient are used interchangeably herein to refer to a mammal being assessed for treatment and or being treated. In an embodiment the mammal is a human such as a female human. The terms subject individual and patient thus encompass individuals in need of assessment of clinical infertility including those who have undergone or are candidates for an in vitro fertilization cycle.

As used herein the term correlates or correlates with and like terms refers to a statistical association between instances of two events where events include numbers data sets and the like. For example when the events involve numbers a positive correlation also referred to herein as a direct correlation means that as one increases the other increases as well. A negative correlation also referred to herein as an inverse correlation means that as one increases the other decreases.

A biological sample encompasses a variety of sample types obtained from an individual. The definition encompasses blood and other liquid samples of biological origin solid tissue samples such as a biopsy specimen or tissue cultures or cells derived therefrom and the progeny thereof. The definition also includes samples that have been manipulated in any way after their procurement such as by treatment with reagents washed or enrichment for certain cell populations such as cancer cells. The definition also includes sample that have been enriched for particular types of molecules e.g. nucleic acids polypeptides etc. The term biological sample encompasses a clinical sample and also includes tissue obtained by surgical resection tissue obtained by biopsy cells in culture cell supernatants cell lysates tissue samples organs bone marrow blood plasma serum and the like. A biological sample includes a sample obtained from a patient s uterus including embryo cultures.

The terms gene product and expression product are used interchangeably herein in reference to a gene to refer to the RNA transcription products transcripts of the gene including mRNA and the polypeptide translation products of such RNA transcripts whether such product is modified post translationally or not. The terms gene product and expression product are used interchangeably herein in reference to an RNA particularly an mRNA to refer to the polypeptide translation products of such RNA whether such product is modified post translationally or not. A gene product can be for example an unspliced RNA an mRNA a splice variant mRNA a polypeptide a post translationally modified polypeptide a splice variant polypeptide etc.

As used herein the term normalized expression level refers to an expression level of a response indicator gene relative to the level of an expression product of a reference gene s .

As used herein the terms label and detectable label refer to a molecule capable of being detected where such molecules include but are not limited to radioactive isotopes fluorescers fluorophores chemiluminescers chromophores enzymes enzyme substrates enzyme cofactors enzyme inhibitors chromophores dyes metal ions metal sols ligands e.g. biotin avidin strepavidin or haptens intercalating dyes and the like. The term fluorescer or fluorophore refers to a substance or a portion thereof which is capable of exhibiting fluorescence in a detectable range.

As used herein the term target nucleic acid region or target nucleic acid refers to a nucleic acid with a target sequence to be detected e.g. in a method involving nucleic acid hybridization and or amplification . The target nucleic acid may be either single stranded or double stranded and may or may not include other sequences besides the target sequence e.g. the target nucleic acid may or may not include nucleic acid sequences upstream or 5 flanking sequence and may or may not include downstream or 3 flanking sequence. Where detection is by amplification these other sequences in addition to the target sequence may or may not be amplified with the target sequence.

The term primer or oligonucleotide primer as used herein refers to an oligonucleotide which acts to initiate synthesis of a complementary nucleic acid strand when placed under conditions in which synthesis of a primer extension product is induced e.g. in the presence of nucleotides and a polymerization inducing agent such as a DNA or RNA polymerase and at suitable temperature pH metal ion concentration and salt concentration. Primers are generally of a length compatible with their use in synthesis of primer extension products and can be in the range of between about 8 nucleotides and about 100 nucleotides nt in length such as about 10 nt to about 75 nt about 15 nt to about 60 nt about 15 nt to about 40 nt about 18 nt to about 30 nt about 20 nt to about 40 nt about 21 nt to about 50 nt about 22 nt to about 45 nt about 25 nt to about 40 nt and so on e.g. in the range of between about 18 nt and about 40 nt between about 20 nt and about 35 nt between about 21 and about 30 nt in length inclusive and any length between the stated ranges. Primers can be in the range of between about 10 50 nucleotides long such as about 15 45 about 18 40 about 20 30 about 21 25 nt and so on and any length between the stated ranges. In some embodiments the primers are not more than about 10 12 15 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 or 70 nucleotides in length. In this context the term about may be construed to mean 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 or 20 more nucleotides either 5 or 3 from either termini or from both termini.

Primers are in many embodiments single stranded for maximum efficiency in amplification but may alternatively be double stranded. If double stranded the primer is in many embodiments first treated to separate its strands before being used to prepare extension products. This denaturation step is typically effected by heat but may alternatively be carried out using alkali followed by neutralization. Thus a primer is complementary to a template and complexes by hydrogen bonding or hybridization with the template to give a primer template complex for initiation of synthesis by a polymerase which is extended by the covalent addition of bases at its 3 end.

A primer pair as used herein refers to first and second primers having nucleic acid sequence suitable for nucleic acid based amplification of a target nucleic acid. Such primer pairs generally include a first primer having a sequence that is the same or similar to that of a first portion of a target nucleic acid and a second primer having a sequence that is complementary to a second portion of a target nucleic acid to provide for amplification of the target nucleic acid or a fragment thereof. Reference to first and second primers herein is arbitrary unless specifically indicated otherwise. For example the first primer can be designed as a forward primer which initiates nucleic acid synthesis from a 5 end of the target nucleic acid or as a reverse primer which initiates nucleic acid synthesis from a 5 end of the extension product produced from synthesis initiated from the forward primer . Likewise the second primer can be designed as a forward primer or a reverse primer.

As used herein the term probe or oligonucleotide probe used interchangeable herein refers to a structure comprised of a polynucleotide as defined above which contains a nucleic acid sequence complementary to a nucleic acid sequence present in the target nucleic acid analyte e.g. a nucleic acid amplification product . The polynucleotide regions of probes may be composed of DNA and or RNA and or synthetic nucleotide analogs. Probes are generally of a length compatible with their use in specific detection of all or a portion of a target sequence of a target nucleic acid and are in many embodiments in the range of between about 8 nt and about 100 nt in length such as about 8 to about 75 nt about 10 to about 74 nt about 12 to about 72 nt about 15 to about 60 nt about 15 to about 40 nt about 18 to about 30 nt about 20 to about 40 nt about 21 to about 50 nt about 22 to about 45 nt about 25 to about 40 nt in length and so on e.g. in the range of between about 18 40 nt about 20 35 nt or about 21 30 nt in length and any length between the stated ranges. In some embodiments a probe is in the range of between about 10 50 nucleotides long such as about 15 45 about 18 40 about 20 30 about 21 28 about 22 25 and so on and any length between the stated ranges. In some embodiments the primers are not more than about 10 12 15 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 or 70 nucleotides in length. In this context the term about may be construed to mean 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 or 20 more nucleotides either 5 or 3 from either termini or from both termini.

Where a nucleic acid is said to hybridize to a recited nucleic acid sequence hybridization is under stringent conditions. An example of stringent hybridization conditions is hybridization at 50 C. or higher and 0.1 SSC 15 mM sodium chloride 1.5 mM sodium citrate . Another example of stringent hybridization conditions is overnight incubation at 42 C. in a solution 50 formamide 5 SSC 150 mM NaCl 15 mM trisodium citrate 50 mM sodium phosphate pH7.6 5 Denhardt s solution 10 dextran sulfate and 20 g ml denatured sheared salmon sperm DNA followed by washing the filters in 0.1 SSC at about 65 C. Stringent hybridization conditions are hybridization conditions that are at least as stringent as the above representative conditions where conditions are considered to be at least as stringent if they are at least about 80 as stringent e.g. at least about 90 as stringent as the above specific stringent conditions.

As noted above methods and computer based systems for facilitating assessment of clinical infertility are provided. The methods and systems can be implemented to for example facilitate assessment of a subject for an in vitro fertilization treatment cycle. The methods and systems can be implemented to for example facilitate a determination of success for implantation of embryos selection of an optimal number of embryos to transfer and determination of success in subsequent in vitro fertilization treatment cycles following an unsuccessful treatment cycle.

In certain embodiments the method includes obtaining items of information from a female subject to provide a profile for the female subject wherein each item of information relate to preselected patient variables comparing the profile for the female subject to a library of known profile patterns known to be indicative of responsiveness to an in vitro fertilization procedure using an algorithm based upon the preselected patient variables wherein the comparing provides an evaluation of the female subject for an in vitro fertilization procedure. In certain embodiments the in vitro fertilization procedure is at least a second vitro fertilization procedure for said female subject.

The items of information may be provided by the female subject based on a written or electronic questionnaire or may be requested transcribed or otherwise logged by a health care practitioner such as a doctor nurse technician or the like during or concurrent with a medical evaluation that may optionally be associated with a determination to undergo a first or subsequent in vitro fertilization cycle.

Exemplary items of information relating to preselected patient variables include but are not limited to patient characteristics such as age previous infertility history clinical diagnosis clinical treatment information such as type of medication number of days of stimulation number of oocytes etc. conventional embryo morphology data such as number of embryos developmental stage grade and the like. In some embodiments the information includes age total number of embryos rate of cleavage arrest number of 8 cell embryos day 3 follicle stimulating hormone FSH level and number of 8 cell embryos transferred.

In certain embodiments the in vitro fertilization procedure provides for a live birth event following the in vitro fertilization procedure. In such embodiments the method provides a probability of a live birth event occurring resulting from the first or subsequent in vitro fertilization cycle based at least in part on items of information from the female subjects.

In some embodiments the female subject is a pre in vitro fertilization pre IVF procedure patient. In certain embodiments the items of information relating to preselected patient variables for determining the probability of a live birth event for a pre IVF procedure patient may include age diminished ovarian reserve 3 follicle stimulating hormone FSH level body mass index polycystic ovarian disease season unexplained female infertility number of spontaneous miscarriages year other causes of female infertility number of previous pregnancies number of previous term deliveries endometriosis tubal disease tubal ligation male infertility uterine fibroids hydrosalpinx and male infertility causes.

In some embodiments the female subject is a pre surgical pre OR procedure patient pre OR is also referred to herein as pre oocyte retrieval . In certain embodiments the items of information relating to preselected patient variables for determining the probability of a live birth event for a pre OR procedure patient may include age endometrial thickness total number of oocytes total amount of gonatropins administered number of total motile sperm after wash number of total motile sperm before wash day 3 follicle stimulating hormone FSH level body mass index sperm collection age of spouse season number of spontaneous miscarriages unexplained female infertility number of previous term deliveries year number of previous pregnancies other causes of female infertility endometriosis male infertility tubal ligation polycystic ovarian disease tubal disease sperm from donor hydrosalpinx uterine fibroids and male infertility causes.

In some embodiments the female subject is a post in vitro fertilization post IVF procedure patient. In certain embodiments the items of information relating to preselected patient variables for determining the probability of a live birth event for a post IVF procedure patient may include blastocyst development rate total number of embryos total amount of gonatropins administered endometrial thickness flare protocol average number of cells per embryo type of catheter used percentage of 8 cell embryos transferred day 3 follicle stimulating hormone FSH level body mass index number of motile sperm before wash number of motile sperm after wash average grade of embryos day of embryo transfer season number of spontaneous miscarriages number of previous term deliveries oral contraceptive pills sperm collection percent of unfertilized eggs number of embryos arrested at 4 cell stage compaction on day 3 after transfer percent of normal fertilization percent of abnormally fertilized eggs percent of normal and mature oocytes number of previous pregnancies year polycystic ovarian disease unexplained female infertility tubal disease male infertility only male infertility causes endometriosis other causes of female infertility uterine fibroids tubal ligation sperm from donor hydrosalpinx performance of ICSI or assisted hatching.

Additional examples of parameters are provided in the examples section including for example Tables 13 and 15.

In certain embodiments the method includes obtaining items of information relating to at least two preselected patient variables or more. As such in other embodiments the method includes obtaining items of information relating to at 3 or more preselected patient variables including 4 or more 5 or more 6 or more 7 or more 8 or more 9 or more 10 or more 12 or more 15 or more 17 or more 20 or more and the like.

In certain embodiments the method includes assigning a weighted relative importance to each preselected patient variable in relation to other preselected patient variables. For example in an analysis of a Pre IVF model subject the preselected patient variables of age and diminished ovarian reserve are given a higher relative importance value over other preselected patient variables such as for example body mass index tubular disease and endometriosis. In such embodiments the sum of the relative importance of each preselected patient variables will equal 100.

In another embodiment in an analysis of a Pre OR model subject the preselected patient variables of total amount of gonoatropins endometrial thickness and age are given a higher relative importance value over other preselected patient variables such as for example number of previous pregnancies tubal ligation and number of spontaneous miscarriages. In such embodiments the sum of the relative importance of each preselected patient variables will equal 100.

In yet another embodiment in an analysis of a Post IVF model subject the preselected patient variables of blastocyst development rate total number of embryos total amount of gonatropins administered and endometrial thickness are given a higher relative importance value over other preselected patient variables such as for example body mass index number of motile sperm before wash number of motile sperm after wash average grade of embryos and day of embryo transfer. In such embodiments the sum of the relative importance of each preselected patient variables will equal 100.

In some embodiments the comparing includes applying a decision rule. In some embodiments the data analysis algorithm comprises the use of a classification tree. In other embodiments the data analysis algorithm is nonparametric such as using a Wilcoxon Signed Rank Test. In certain embodiments the data analysis algorithm detects differences in a distribution of feature values. In some embodiments the data analysis algorithm includes using a multiple additive regression tree. In some embodiments the data analysis algorithm is a logistic regression.

In further embodiments the method includes assessment of a gene expression profile of an arrested embryo from the female subject. For example embryos that have arrested for example embryos that have fewer than about 5 cells on day 3 following in vitro fertilization are tested for a relative expression level of a panel of genes that are critical to embryo development. The gene expression profile is then compared to a control gene expression profile.

Any gene that for which normalized expression level is correlated either positively or negatively with infertility or likelihood of success or failure of an in vitro fertilization cycle is suitable for use with the methods of the invention. Exemplary genes include but are not limited to Oct4 Eif3c Papola Piwil2 Eif3b Eif4b Rbm3 Cpsf4 and other genes found to be down or upregulated upon Oct4 knockdown or the knockdown of another gene encoding a pluripotency regulator e.g. Sal14 . Other exemplary genes include those listed in Tables 8A 8B 9A and 9B in attached Appendixes A D as well as Table 12. These gene products are referred to herein as infertility indicator gene products and genes encoding the response indicator gene products are referred to as infertility indicator genes. Normalized expression levels of one or more of these infertility indicator genes can be determined to assess a female patient for an in vitro fertilization treatment cycle. Infertility indicator genes were identified as described in detail below in the Examples. Other genes that are suitable for use in the analysis can be identified using the methods described here in the Examples section.

In carrying out a subject assessment a sample comprising an infertility indicator gene is assayed for a level of an infertility indicator gene product s . Where the gene product being assayed is a nucleic acid a nucleic acid sample e.g. a sample comprising nucleic acid is obtained from an embryo cell. Where the gene product being assayed is a protein a polypeptide sample e.g. a sample comprising polypeptides is obtained from an embryo.

Nucleic acid including mRNA and or polypeptide infertility indicator gene products can be obtained from an embryo including an oocyte such as an arrested embryo or oocyte e.g. an embryo or oocyte having less than about 8 cells on about day 3 following fertilization including about 7 cells about 6 cells about 5 cells about 4 cells about 3 cells etc. using standard methods. Levels of nucleic acid and or polypeptide gene products can be measured using any of a variety of well known methods including those described in the Examples below.

An expression level of a response indicator gene is normalized relative to the level of an expression product of a reference gene s . Assessing the infertility likelihood is conducted by comparing the normalized expression level to a range of values of normalized expression levels of the gene product in an embryo cell.

Normalized expression level of one or more infertility indicator genes can be carried out to assess the likelihood that a patient will respond positively or negatively to an in vitro fertilization treatment cycle. Normalized expression level of a single infertility indicator gene can be carried out to assess the likelihood that a patient will respond positively or negatively to an in vitro fertilization treatment cycle. In addition normalized expression level of two or more infertility indicator genes can be carried out to assess the likelihood that a patient will respond positively or negatively to an in vitro fertilization treatment cycle. The analysis can be more stringent e.g. the optimal number of embryos to transfer to the female patient to maximize the likelihood of a live birth outcome while minimizing the likelihood of multiple gestations. The analysis can be less stringent e.g. the likelihood that a patient will exhibit a beneficial response to an in vitro fertilization treatment cycle.

In some embodiments the analysis includes determining the optimal number of embryos to transfer in order to minimize the probability of multiple gestation events in a subject. In such embodiments the subject is first identified as a subject having a high probability of having multiple gestation events. The subject is then analyzed to determine the optimal number of embryos to transfer in order to provide for a single live birth event following the in vitro fertilization cycle.

It will be appreciated that assessment of likelihood that a patient will respond positively or negatively in vitro fertilization treatment cycle can be conducted by determining normalized expression levels of two or more infertility indicator genes e.g. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 or more infertility indicator genes or any combination of one or more sets of infertility indicator genes. The assessment can involve analyzing expression levels of a combination of infertility indicator genes and determining normalized expression levels of the combination of infertility indicator genes where the infertility indicator gene products can include gene products that are positively correlated with an in vitro fertilization treatment cycle and gene products that are negatively correlated with an in vitro fertilization treatment cycle. For example a normalized level of a first gene that positively correlates with an in vitro fertilization treatment cycle and a normalized level of a second gene that negatively correlates with an in vitro fertilization treatment cycle can be determined.

As discussed above the expression level of an infertility indicator gene is normalized thereby providing a normalized value. The expression level of an infertility indicator gene is normalized relative to the level of an expression product of a reference gene s .

For example the expression level of an infertility indicator gene can be normalized relative to the mean level of gene products of two or more reference genes. As an example the expression level of an infertility indicator gene can be normalized relative to the mean level of gene products of all assayed genes or a subset of the assayed genes where a subset of the assayed genes can include 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 or more assayed genes.

Suitable reference genes include but are not limited to glyceraldehyde 3 phosphate dehydrogenase GAPDH see e.g. GenBank Accession No. NM 002046 phosphoglycerate kinase 1 see e.g. GenBank Accession No. NM 000291 lactate dehydrogenase A see e.g. GenBank Accession No. NM 005566 ribosomal protein L32 see e.g. GenBank Accession No. NM 000994 ribosomal protein S18 see e.g. GenBank Accession No. NM 022551 tubulin beta polypeptide TUBB see e.g. GenBank Accession No. NM 001069 and beta actin see e.g. GenBank Accession No. NM 001101 . See e.g. Eisenberg and Levanon 2003 19 362 for a list of additional suitable reference genes.

The level of an RNA transcript as measured by TaqMan RT PCR refers to the cycle threshold Ct value. The lower the Ct the greater the amount of mRNA present in the sample. The expression value of a RNA transcript in a sample is normalized e.g. by first determining the mean expression value in Ct of designated reference genes in a sample Ct . The normalized expression value for a gene Ct is then calculated as Ct Ct Ct. Optionally the normalized expression values for all genes can be adjusted e.g. so that all adjusted normalized Ct have a value 0.

A normalized level of an infertility indicator gene product determined for an individual patient can be compared to normalized expression level values for the infertility indication gene determined in a population of patients for which the clinical outcome is already known in order to determine an individual patient s probability of beneficial response to an in vitro fertilization treatment cycle. Normalized expression level values e.g. expressed as Ct correlated with a probability can be used. For example a normalized level of a response indicator gene product can be compared graphically to determine the probability of beneficial response to an in vitro fertilization treatment cycle.

The analyses and determinations described herein in connection with a subject method for assessing likelihood of response can be made without the need for assessing any change in the level of a response indicator gene over time.

One approach to analyze this data is to use a classification tree algorithm that searches for patterns and relationships in large datasets. A classification tree is a recursive partition to evaluate a female subject for an in vitro fertilization procedure using a series of questions that are designed to accurately place the patient into one of the classes. Each question asks whether a patient s condition satisfies a given predictor with each answer being used to guide the user down the classification tree until a class into which the patient falls can be determined. As used herein a predictor is the range of values of the features such as for example age total number of embryos rate of cleavage arrest number of 8 cell embryos day 3 follicle stimulating hormone FSH level and number of 8 cell embryos transferred.

An automated flexible modeling technique that uses multiple additive regression trees MART may also be used to classify sets of features as belonging to one of two populations. A MART model uses an initial offset which specifies a constant that applies to all predictions followed by a series of regression trees. Its fitting is specified by the number of decision points in each tree the number of trees to fit and a granularity constant that specifies how radically a particular tree can influence the MART model. For each iteration a regression tree is fitted to estimate the direction of steepest descent of the fitting criterion. A step having a length specified by the granularity constant is taken in that direction. The MART model then consists of the initial offset plus the step provided by the regression tree. The differences between the observed and predicted values are recalculated and the cycle proceeds again leading to a progressive refinement of the prediction. The process continues either for a predetermined number of cycles or until some stopping rule is triggered.

The number of splits in each tree is a particularly meaningful fitting parameter. If each tree has only one split the model looks only at one feature and has no capability for combining two predictors. If each tree has two splits the model can accommodate two way interactions among features. With three trees the model can accommodate three way interactions and so forth.

The value of sets of features in predicting class status was determined for data sets with features and known class status. MART provides a measure of the contribution or importance of individual features to the classification decision rule. Specifically the degree to which a single feature contributes to the decision rule upon its selection at a given tree split can be measured to provide a ranking of features by their importance in determining the final decision rule. Repeating the MART analysis on the same data set may yield a slightly different ranking of features especially with respect to those features that are less important in establishing the decision rule. Sets of predictive features and their corresponding biomarkers that are useful for the present invention therefore may vary slightly from those set forth herein.

One exemplary implementation of the MART technology is found in a module or package for the R statistical programming environment see Venables et al. in Modern Applied Statistics with S 4th ed. Springer 2002 www.r project.org . Results reported in this document were calculated using R versions 1.7.0 and 1.7.1. The module implementing MART written by Dr. Greg Ridgeway is called gbm and is also available for download see www.r project.org . The MART algorithm is amenable to ten fold cross validation. The granularity parameter was set to 0.05 and the gbm package s internal stopping rule was based on leaving out 20 of the data cases at each marked iteration. The degree of interaction was set to one so no interactions among features were considered. The gbm package estimates the relative importance of each feature on a percentage basis which cumulatively equals 100 for all the features of the biomarker profile. The features with highest importance which together account for at least 90 of total importance are reported as potentially having predictive value. Note that the stopping rule in the fitting of every MART model contributes a stochastic component to model fitting and feature selection. Consequently multiple MART modeling runs based on the same data may choose slightly or possibly even completely different sets of features. Such different sets convey the same predictive information therefore all the sets are useful in the present invention. Fitting MART models a sufficient number of times is expected to produce all the possible sets of predictive features within a profile. Accordingly the disclosed sets of predictors are merely representative of those sets of features that can be used to classify individuals into populations.

In yet another method a nonparametric test such as a Wilcoxon Signed Rank Test can be used to identify individual biomarkers of interest. The features in a biomarker profile are assigned a p value which indicates the degree of certainty with which the biomarker can be used to classify individuals as belonging to a particular reference population. Generally a p value having predictive value is lower than about 0.05. Biomarkers having a low p value can be used by themselves to classify individuals. Alternatively combinations of two or more biomarkers can be used to classify individuals where the combinations are chosen on the basis of the relative p value of a biomarker. In general those biomarkers with lower p values are preferred for a given combination of items of information. Combinations of at least three four five six 10 20 or 30 or more biomarkers also can be used to classify individuals in this manner. The artisan will understand that the relative p value of any given biomarker may vary depending on the size of the reference population.

As discussed above evaluation of a female subject for an in vitro fertilization procedure including determining probability of a live birth event is done by obtaining and comparing items of information from the female subject to a library of known profile patterns known to be indicative of responsiveness to an in vitro fertilization procedure using an algorithm based upon said preselected patient variables and optionally evaluating the normalized expression level of one or more fertility response genes. In some embodiments a patient s evaluation is provided in a report. Thus in some embodiments the method further includes a step of preparing or generating a report that includes information regarding the patient s likelihood of successes for an in vitro fertilization procedure. For example a subject method can further include a step of generating or outputting a report providing the results of a patient s evaluation which report can be provided in the form of an electronic medium e.g. an electronic display on a computer monitor or in the form of a tangible medium e.g. a report printed on paper or other tangible medium .

A report that includes information regarding the patient s evaluation is provided to a user. The evaluation may include for example a determination of success for implantation of embryos selection of an optimal number of embryos to transfer and determination of success in subsequent in vitro fertilization treatment cycles following an unsuccessful treatment cycle.

The report generator may also perform one or more of sample gathering sample processing and data generation e.g. the report generator may also perform one or more of a sample gathering b sample processing c measuring a level of an infertility indicator gene product s d measuring a level of a reference gene product s and e determining a normalized level of a infertility indicator gene product s . Alternatively an entity other than the report generator can perform one or more sample gathering sample processing and data generation.

For clarity it should be noted that the term user which is used interchangeably with client is meant to refer to a person or entity to whom a report is transmitted and may be the same person or entity who does one or more of the following a collects a sample b processes a sample c provides a sample or a processed sample and d generates data e.g. level of a response indicator gene product s level of a reference gene product s normalized level of a response indicator gene product s for use in the likelihood assessment. In some cases the person s or entity ies who provides sample collection and or sample processing and or data generation and the person who receives the results and or report may be different persons but are both referred to as users or clients herein to avoid confusion. In certain embodiments e.g. where the methods are completely executed on a single computer the user or client provides for data input and review of data output. A user can be a health professional e.g. a clinician a laboratory technician a physician e.g. a Reproductive Endocrinologist etc. .

In embodiments where the user only executes a portion of the method the individual who after computerized data processing according to the methods of the invention reviews data output e.g. results prior to release to provide a complete report a complete or reviews an incomplete report and provides for manual intervention and completion of an interpretive report is referred to herein as a reviewer. The reviewer may be located at a location remote to the user e.g. at a service provided separate from a healthcare facility where a user may be located .

A report as described herein is an electronic or tangible document which includes report elements that provide information of interest relating to a subject likelihood assessment and its results. A subject report includes at least an evaluation for an in vitro fertilization treatment cycle e.g. facilitate a determination of success for implantation of embryos selection of an optimal number of embryos to transfer and determination of success in subsequent in vitro fertilization treatment cycles following an unsuccessful treatment cycle. A subject report can be completely or partially electronically generated. A subject report can further include one or more of 1 information regarding the testing facility 2 service provider information 3 patient data 4 sample data 5 an interpretive report which can include various information including a indication b test data where test data can optionally include normalized level of one or more infertility indicator gene products and 6 other features.

Where government regulations or other restrictions apply e.g. requirements by health malpractice or liability insurance all results whether generated wholly or partially electronically are subjected to a quality control routine prior to release to the user.

The report can include information about the testing facility which information is relevant to the hospital clinic or laboratory in which sample gathering and or data generation was conducted. Data generation can include one or more of a measuring a level of a gene product s e.g. an infertility indicator gene product s a reference gene product s b determination of a normalized level of an infertility indicator gene product. This information can include one or more details relating to for example the name and location of the testing facility the identity of the lab technician who conducted the assay and or who entered the input data the date and time the assay was conducted and or analyzed the location where the sample and or result data is stored the lot number of the reagents e.g. kit etc. used in the assay and the like. Report fields with this information can generally be populated using information provided by the user.

The report can include information about the service provider which may be located outside the healthcare facility at which the user is located or within the healthcare facility. Examples of such information can include the name and location of the service provider the name of the reviewer and where necessary or desired the name of the individual who conducted sample gathering and or data generation. Report fields with this information can generally be populated using data entered by the user which can be selected from among pre scripted selections e.g. using a drop down menu . Other service provider information in the report can include contact information for technical information about the result and or about the interpretive report.

The patient data can include patient medical history which can include e.g. data about prior or current in vitro fertilization treatment cycles personal history administrative patient data that is data that are not essential to the likelihood assessment such as information to identify the patient e.g. name patient date of birth DOB gender mailing and or residence address medical record number MRN room and or bed number in a healthcare facility insurance information and the like the name of the patient s physician or other health professional who ordered the response likelihood assessment and if different from the ordering physician the name of a staff physician who is responsible for the patient s care e.g. primary care physician . Report fields with this information can generally be populated using data entered by the user.

Exemplary items of information include but are not limited to patient characteristics such as age previous infertility history clinical diagnosis clinical treatment information such as type of medication number of days of stimulation number of oocytes etc. conventional embryo morphology data such as number of embryos developmental stage grade and the like. In some embodiments the information includes age total number of embryos rate of cleavage arrest number of 8 cell embryos day 3 follicle stimulating hormone FSH level number of 8 cell embryos transferred age diminished ovarian reserve endometrial thickness blastocyst rate total number of embryos total number of oocytes total amount of gonatropins administered and number of total motile sperm.

The sample data can provide information about the embryo analyzed in the likelihood assessment such as the number of days following fertilization resulting in arrest and the date and time collected. Report fields with this information can generally be populated using data entered by the user some of which may be provided as pre scripted selections e.g. using a drop down menu .

The interpretive report portion of the report includes information generated after processing of the data as described herein. The interpretive report can include an evaluation of a female subject for an in vitro fertilization procedure. The interpretive report can include for example Result of analysis comparing the profile for the female subject to a library of known profile patterns known to be indicative of responsiveness to an in vitro fertilization procedure using an algorithm based upon said preselected patient variables and optionally Result of normalized level of infertility indicator gene s e.g. normalized level of infertility indicator gene s Interpretation and optionally Recommendation s .

The Interpretation portion of the report can include a Recommendation s . Where the results indicate a determination of success for implantation of embryos selection of an optimal number of embryos to transfer and determination of success in subsequent in vitro fertilization treatment cycles following an unsuccessful treatment cycle.

It will be readily appreciated that the report can include all or some of the elements above with the proviso that the report generally includes at least the elements sufficient to provide the analysis requested by the user e.g. likelihood assessment .

It will also be readily appreciated that the reports can include additional elements or modified elements. For example where electronic the report can contain hyperlinks which point to internal or external databases which provide more detailed information about selected elements of the report. For example the patient data element of the report can include a hyperlink to an electronic patient record or a site for accessing such a patient record which patient record is maintained in a confidential database. This latter embodiment may be of interest in an in hospital system or in clinic setting.

The methods and systems described herein can be implemented in numerous ways. In one embodiment of particular interest the methods involve use of a communications infrastructure for example the internet. Several embodiments of the invention are discussed below. It is also to be understood that the present invention may be implemented in various forms of hardware software firmware processors or a combination thereof. The methods and systems described herein can be implemented as a combination of hardware and software. The software can be implemented as an application program tangibly embodied on a program storage device or different portions of the software implemented in the user s computing environment e.g. as an applet and on the reviewer s computing environment where the reviewer may be located at a remote site associated e.g. at a service provider s facility .

The various elements of the computing device such as a the input device may be associated with other elements of the system via a wired connection or a wireless connection including for example a wireless LAN connection Bluetooth connection protocol ZigBee connection protocol radio frequency connection protocol or a cellular phone connection protocol including code derived multiple access CDMA or via a global system for mobile communication GSM .

For example during or after data input by the user portions of the data processing can be performed in the user side computing environment. For example the user side computing environment can be programmed to provide for defined test codes to denote a likelihood score where the score is transmitted as processed or partially processed responses to the reviewer s computing environment in the form of test code for subsequent execution of one or more algorithms to provide a results and or generate a report in the reviewer s computing environment.

The application program for executing the algorithms described herein may be uploaded to and executed by a machine comprising any suitable architecture. In general the machine involves a computer platform having hardware such as one or more central processing units CPU a random access memory RAM and input output I O interface s . The computer platform also includes an operating system and microinstruction code. The various processes and functions described herein may either be part of the microinstruction code or part of the application program or a combination thereof which is executed via the operating system. In addition various other peripheral devices may be connected to the computer platform such as an additional data storage device and a printing device.

As a computer system the system generally includes a processor unit. The processor unit operates to receive information which generally includes subject information data such as age total number of embryos rate of cleavage arrest number of 8 cell embryos day 3 follicle stimulating hormone FSH level number of 8 cell embryos transferred age diminished ovarian reserve endometrial thickness blastocyst rate total number of embryos total number of oocytes total amount of gonatropins administered and number of total motile sperm. This information received can be stored at least temporarily in a database and data analyzed to generate a report as described above.

Part or all of the input and output data can also be sent electronically certain output data e.g. reports can be sent electronically or telephonically e.g. by facsimile e.g. using devices such as fax back . Exemplary output receiving devices can include a display element a printer a facsimile device and the like. Electronic forms of transmission and or display can include email interactive television and the like. In an embodiment of particular interest all or a portion of the input data and or all or a portion of the output data e.g. usually at least the final report are maintained on a web server for access preferably confidential access with typical browsers. The data may be accessed or sent to health professionals as desired. The input and output data including all or a portion of the final report can be used to populate a patient s medical record which may exist in a confidential database at the healthcare facility.

A system for use in the methods described herein generally includes at least one computer processor e.g. where the method is carried out in its entirety at a single site or at least two networked computer processors e.g. where data is to be input by a user also referred to herein as a client and transmitted to a remote site to a second computer processor for analysis where the first and second computer processors are connected by a network e.g. via an intranet or internet . The system can also include a user component s for input and a reviewer component s for review of data generated reports and manual intervention. Additional components of the system can include a server component s and a database s for storing data e.g. as in a database of report elements e.g. interpretive report elements or a relational database RDB which can include data input by the user and data output. The computer processors can be processors that are typically found in personal desktop computers e.g. IBM Dell Macintosh portable computers mainframes minicomputers or other computing devices such as Smartphone devices including for example an Apple iPhone device.

The networked client server architecture can be selected as desired and can be for example a classic two or three tier client server model. A relational database management system RDMS either as part of an application server component or as a separate component RDB machine provides the interface to the database.

In one embodiment the architecture is provided as a database centric client server architecture in which the client application generally requests services from the application server which makes requests to the database or the database server to populate the report with the various report elements as required particularly the interpretive report elements especially the interpretation text and alerts. The server s e.g. either as part of the application server machine or a separate RDB relational database machine responds to the client s requests.

The input client components can be complete stand alone personal computers offering a full range of power and features to run applications. The client component usually operates under any desired operating system and includes a communication element e.g. a modem or other hardware for connecting to a network one or more input devices e.g. a keyboard mouse keypad or other device used to transfer information or commands a storage element e.g. a hard drive or other computer readable computer writable storage medium and a display element e.g. a monitor television LCD LED or other display device that conveys information to the user . The user enters input commands into the computer processor through an input device. Generally the user interface is a graphical user interface GUI written for web browser applications.

The server component s can be a personal computer a minicomputer or a mainframe and offers data management information sharing between clients network administration and security. The application and any databases used can be on the same or different servers.

Other computing arrangements for the client and server s including processing on a single machine such as a mainframe a collection of machines or other suitable configuration are contemplated. In general the client and server machines work together to accomplish the processing of the present invention.

Where used the database s is usually connected to the database server component and can be any device which will hold data. For example the database can be a any magnetic or optical storing device for a computer e.g. CDROM internal hard drive tape drive . The database can be located remote to the server component with access via a network modem etc. or locally to the server component.

Where used in the system and methods the database can be a relational database that is organized and accessed according to relationships between data items. The relational database is generally composed of a plurality of tables entities . The rows of a table represent records collections of information about separate items and the columns represent fields particular attributes of a record . In its simplest conception the relational database is a collection of data entries that relate to each other through at least one common field.

Additional workstations equipped with computers and printers may be used at point of service to enter data and in some embodiments generate appropriate reports if desired. The computer s can have a shortcut e.g. on the desktop to launch the application to facilitate initiation of data entry transmission analysis report receipt etc. as desired.

The invention also contemplates a computer readable storage medium e.g. CD ROM memory key flash memory card diskette etc. having stored thereon a program which when executed in a computing environment provides for implementation of algorithms to carry out all or a portion of the methods of analysis of evaluating a subject for an in vitro fertilization procedure as described herein. Where the computer readable medium contains a complete program for carrying out the methods described herein the program includes program instructions for collecting analyzing and generating output and generally includes computer readable code devices for interacting with a user as described herein processing that data in conjunction with analytical information and generating unique printed or electronic media for that user.

Where the storage medium provides a program which provides for implementation of a portion of the methods described herein e.g. the user side aspect of the methods e.g. data input report receipt capabilities etc. the program provides for transmission of data input by the user e.g. via the internet via an intranet etc. to a computing environment at a remote site. Processing or completion of processing of the data is carried out at the remote site to generate a report. After review of the report and completion of any needed manual intervention to provide a complete report the complete report is then transmitted back to the user as an electronic document or printed document e.g. fax or mailed paper report . The storage medium containing a program according to the invention can be packaged with instructions e.g. for program installation use etc. recorded on a suitable substrate or a web address where such instructions may be obtained. The computer readable storage medium can also be provided in combination with one or more reagents for carrying determining subject information data e.g. material for determining rate of cleavage arrest number of 8 cell embryos day 3 follicle stimulating hormone FSH level and number of 8 cell embryos transferred and the like.

The materials for use in the methods of the present invention are suited for preparation of kits produced in accordance with well known procedures. The invention thus provides kits comprising reagents which may include gene specific or gene selective probes and or primers useful for assaying the expression of genes disclosed herein and for assessing the likelihood of response to an in vitro treatment cycle.

For example a subject kit can include one or more nucleic acid probes that hybridize specifically to nucleic acid infertility indicator gene products. A subject kit can include e.g. one or more nucleic acid probes where each of the one or more probes hybridizes specifically to a different response indicator gene product. For example a subject kit can include probes that hybridize specifically to nucleic acid products of infertility indicator genes including but are not limited to Oct4 Eif3c Papola Piwil2 Eif3b Eif4b Rbm3 and Cpsf4. As another example a subject kit can include a set of two or more nucleic acid probes where each probe of the set hybridizes to a nucleic acid product of a different infertility indicator gene. For example a subject kit can include a set of two three four five six seven or more nucleic acid probes where each probe of the set hybridizes to a nucleic acid product of a different member of a set of infertility indicator genes.

In some cases a subject kit will include in addition to a probe that hybridizes specifically to a nucleic acid product of an infertility indicator gene one or more probes that hybridize specifically to a reference gene product. Such probes can be used in determining normalized expression levels of an infertility indicator gene.

A subject kit can include one or more nucleic acid primer pairs where the primer pairs when used as primers in a polymerase chain reaction amplify a target nucleic acid response indicator gene product or a target region of a nucleic acid response indicator gene product. A subject kit can include primer pairs for multiple infertility indicator genes.

Exemplary sequences of nucleic acid primers and probes are provided in the Examples described herein. Those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that other probe and primer sequences are also possible and are readily obtained based on known nucleotide sequences of infertility indicator genes and or based on known nucleotide sequences of reference genes.

In addition to the above mentioned probes and primers a subject kit can comprise reagents for the extraction and or isolation of RNA from single cell embryos in particular fixed paraffin embedded tissue samples and or reagents for preparing a cDNA copy of an mRNA and or reagents for nucleic acid amplification. Exemplary reagents include those required for use of a FLUIDIGM BIOMARK 48.48 Dynamic array system comparable single cell gene expression analysis platform RT PCR or emerging technology such as next generation whole transcriptome sequencing at the single cell level.

Primers and probes can be designed based on known sequences of infertility indicator genes and are readily synthesized by standard techniques e.g. solid phase synthesis via phosphoramidite chemistry as disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 458 066 and 4 415 732 incorporated herein by reference Beaucage et al. 1992 Tetrahedron 48 2223 2311 and Applied Biosystems User Bulletin No. 13 1 Apr. 1987 . Other chemical synthesis methods include for example the phosphotriester method described by Narang et al. Meth. Enzymol. 1979 68 90 and the phosphodiester method disclosed by Brown et al. Meth. Enzymol. 1979 68 109. Poly A or poly C or other non complementary nucleotide extensions may be incorporated into probes using these same methods. Hexaethylene oxide extensions may be coupled to probes by methods known in the art. Cload et al. 1991 J. Am. Chem. Soc. 113 6324 6326 U.S. Pat. No. 4 914 210 to Levenson et al. Durand et al. 1990 Nucleic Acids Res. 18 6353 6359 and Horn et al. 1986 Tet. Lett. 27 4705 4708.

A probe or a primer can include a detectable label. Exemplary labels include fluorochromes e.g. fluorescein isothiocyanate FITC rhodamine Texas Red phycoerythrin allophycocyanin 6 carboxyfluorescein 6 FAM 2 7 dimethoxy 4 5 dichloro 6 carboxyfluorescein JOE 6 carboxy X rhodamine ROX 6 carboxy 2 4 7 4 7 hexachlorofluorescein HEX 5 carboxyfluorescein 5 FAM N N N N tetramethyl 6 carboxyrhodamine TAMRA Cy5 Cy3 and the like and radioactive labels e.g. P etc. .

Probes and primers for inclusion in a subject kit include those useful in various amplification and or detection systems. Exemplary amplification and or detection systems include Sunrise primer based systems Molecular Beacons the Taqman system an Amplifluor hairpin primer based system a Scorpions technology e.g. bi functional molecules containing a PCR primer element covalently linked to a probe element a Light Upon Extension or LUX based system and a FLUIDIGM BIOMARK 48.48 Dynamic array system. Further exemplary detection systems include those based on a melt curve analysis and using intercalating dyes such as the fluorescent dye SYBR Green.

The kits may optionally comprise reagent s with an identifying description or label or instructions relating to their use in the methods of the present invention. The kits may comprise containers including microtiter plates suitable for use in an automated implementation of the method each with one or more of the various reagents typically in concentrated form utilized in the methods of the invention including for example pre fabricated microarrays buffers the appropriate nucleotide triphosphates e.g. dATP dCTP dGTP and dTTP or rATP rCTP rGTP and UTP reverse transcriptase DNA polymerase RNA polymerase and one or more probes and primers of the present invention e.g. appropriate length poly T or random primers linked to a promoter reactive with the RNA polymerase .

Instructions for the use of mathematical algorithms used to evaluate a female subject for an in vitro fertilization treatment cycle including determining a probability of a live birth event can also be included in a subject kit. In such embodiments the kits will further include a written or electronic medium or instructions to access a remote database as described above to provide and or receive information which generally includes subject information data such as age total number of embryos rate of cleavage arrest number of 8 cell embryos day 3 follicle stimulating hormone FSH level number of 8 cell embryos transferred age diminished ovarian reserve endometrial thickness blastocyst rate total number of embryos total number of oocytes total amount of gonatropins administered and number of total motile sperm in order to carry out the methods as described above.

The following examples are put forth so as to provide those of ordinary skill in the art with a complete disclosure and description of how to make and use the present invention and are not intended to limit the scope of what the inventors regard as their invention nor are they intended to represent that the experiments below are all or the only experiments performed. Efforts have been made to ensure accuracy with respect to numbers used e.g. amounts temperature etc. but some experimental errors and deviations should be accounted for. Unless indicated otherwise parts are parts by weight molecular weight is weight average molecular weight temperature is in degrees Centigrade and pressure is at or near atmospheric.

Data related to clinical diagnoses UVF treatment protocol and monitoring embryology data and treatment outcomes for all IVF cycles performed between Jan. 1 2003 and Dec. 31 2006 at Stanford University Medical Center were retrieved from BabySentryPro BabySentry Ltd Limassol Cyprus a widely used fertility database management system or obtained from medical and embryology records as necessary. Retrospective data collection de identification and analysis were performed according to a Stanford University Institutional Review Board approved protocol. The inclusion criteria for data analysis were fresh stimulated non donor oocyte IVF cycles.

In certain experiments cycles that did not result in embryo transfer for any reason cycles performed for women aged over 45 and those performed for preimplantation genetic screening were excluded.

In other experiments we did not exclude cycles that were canceled at any point due to medical or non medical reasons after the IVF treatment had started. We excluded cryopreserved embryo transfer cycles which used embryos that had been conceived in a different IVF clinic.

We renumbered all IVF cycles according to the following method. For each patient the first fresh IVF cycle appearing in this four year data set is called Cycle 1 . The final outcome of all embryo transfer treatments that utilize fresh or cryopreserved embryos conceived from Cycle 1 is defined as the outcome for Cycle 1. The second fresh IVF cycle that appears is defined Cycle 2 and so on. Our database could not accommodate data on IVF cycles that were performed elsewhere.

The standard clinical protocols for IVF treatment fertilization embryo culture embryo assessment cryopreservation criteria and clinical outcomes are described below. The normal progression of human embryo development in vitro is characterized by the appearance of 2 pronuclei at 16 20 hours after insemination as evidence of fertilization on Day 1 with Day 0 as the day of oocyte retrieval. By late Day 1 embryo development has reached the 2 cell stage followed by the 4 cell and 8 cell stages on Days 2 and 3 respectively. On Days 4 and 5 embryo development is characterized by the establishment of the morula and blastocyst stages respectively. All embryos were available for evaluation on Day 3. The day of embryo transfer was determined by the number of blastomeres on Day 3. In general if 4 or more 8 cell embryos were present we would recommend extended embryo culture until Day 5 when blastocyst transfer which has been associated with higher pregnancy rates would be performed. If fewer than four 8 cell embryos were present embryo transfer would be performed on Day 3.

30 variables for association with IVF treatment outcomes were analyzed as listed in Table 1 under four main categories patient characteristics and clinical diagnoses IVF cycle characteristics embryo cohort parameters and parameters of transferred embryos. The cleavage arrest rate was defined as the percentage of embryos within a cohort with 4 or fewer cells on Day 3 of in vitro culture. All other variables were self explanatory.

Statistical analyses were performed based on the dichotomous outcomes of live birth versus no live birth. No live birth encompassed all other outcomes such as negative serum hCG or positive serum hCG followed by biochemical pregnancy spontaneous abortion and ectopic pregnancy.

Since some patients underwent more than one IVF cycle during the study period the analyses were performed based on treatment cycles rather than patients. Statistical analyses were performed based on the dichotomous outcomes of no pregnancy as defined by negative serum hCG and pregnancy as defined by positive serum hCG and included biochemical pregnancy clinical pregnancy spontaneous abortion and ectopic pregnancy. We performed pair wise logistic regression of each variable to the outcome and determined the Pearson correlation coefficient between each pair of continuous variables.

For the main analyses boosted classification trees were constructed by MART to identify non redundant prognostic variables which were then further analyzed by CART to identify thresholds that would define them as categorical variables. MART is a robust method used to identify interactive structure of variables that are predictive of outcomes. The use of cross validation and boosting in parameter selection and model assessment in MART also preserve parsimony and prevent over fitting. In the MART tree constructions the whole data set is divided into 10 subsets to achieve 10 fold cross validation for model assessment. The same 10 fold cross validation was repeated 1000 times to perform a robust prediction rate estimation and identify tree models with the highest prediction rates in the CART. While MART is powerful in selecting non redundant prognostic variables from a large set of highly interactive variables CART analysis results in simple algorithms and more easily understood decision trees that are used in the medical literature Guznick et al. N Engl J Med 345 1388 1393. 2001 . Thus non redundant prognostic variables identified by MART to confer prediction were analyzed by CART to further define prognostic thresholds.

In some experiments if patients underwent multiple fresh IVF cycles during the study period only the first three cycles were analyzed. We generated the models based on cycle 1 C1 data only. Data from C2 and C3 were used to test inter cycle validation of the pre transfer model only.

In such experiments we performed pair wise logistic regression of each variable to the outcome and determined the Pearson correlation coefficient between each pair of continuous variables. We generated three models based on data that were available at three different time points prior to IVF treatment pre IVF oocyte retrieval pre OR and after embryo transfer post IVF . We generated each model by ranking variables according to their relative influence using gradient boosting machine GBM the R software implementation of MART followed by construction of regression tree models using top ranked variables with Rpart software. MART is a robust method used to identify interactive structure of variables that are predictive of outcomes. The use of cross validation and boosting in parameter selection and model assessment in MART also preserve parsimony and prevent over fitting. In the MART tree constructions the whole data set is divided into 10 subsets to achieve 10 fold cross validation for model assessment. The same 10 fold cross validation was repeated 1000 times to perform a robust prediction rate estimation and identify tree models with the highest prediction rates. While MART is powerful in selecting non redundant prognostic variables from a large set of highly interactive variables.

The majority of our analyzed IVF cycles were performed in patients with poor ovarian reserve severe male factor infertility tubal infertility anovulatory disorders or unexplained etiology. In general one of three stimulation protocols was used in each treatment cycle luteal downregulation long was used for most patients and microdose lupron flare and antagonist protocols were used primarily for patients with presumed diminished ovarian reserve or with a history of previously failed IVF cycles. The long protocol consisted of luteal downregulation using 0.5 mg leuprolide acetate which was decreased to 0.25 mg with stimulation. In the flare protocol microdose lupron 0.04 mg s.c. bid was started after 2 4 weeks of oral contraceptive pills. In the antagonist protocol GnRH antagonist was initiated when the lead follicle reached 14 mm in size. In all three protocols baseline ultrasound testing was performed to document that no cysts 1.5 cm were present in the ovaries. When baseline criteria were met gonadotropin therapy using recombinant FSH with human menopausal gonadotropin was begun. Stimulation was generally achieved using daily dosing of a total of 150 600 IU per day in order to maximize follicular recruitment. Ultrasound monitoring of follicular growth was performed starting on cycle day 7 and then every 1 3 days as indicated. Serum estradiol levels were monitored as necessary.

A dose of 10 000 IU of human chorionic gonadotropin was administered when at least two follicles reached an average diameter of 17 mm. Transvaginal ultrasound guided oocyte retrieval was performed 34 36 hours after hCG administration in the standard fashion with monitored anesthetic care.

Oocytes were cultured in groups before fertilization under mineral oil in approximately 125 l droplets of Sage Cleavage Medium Cooper Surgical Inc Trumbull Conn. with 10 Serum Protein Substitute SPS Irvine Scientific Santa Ana Calif. . Oocytes destined for conventional IVF were cultured in groups of 5 and oocytes destined for intracytoplasmic sperm injection ICSI were cultured in groups of up to 20 after stripping the cumulus cells. Oocytes were inseminated with sperm if the semen analysis was normal and fertilization was expected to be normal. Oocytes were inseminated conventionally between 4 6 hours after retrieval. If the semen analysis was abnormal or poor fertilization was expected then the oocytes were injected with sperm using ICSI. The fertilized oocytes were cultured in groups of up to 20 under mineral oil in approximately 125 l droplets of Sage Cleavage Medium Cooper Surgical Inc Trumbull Conn. with 10 SPS at 37 C. in a humidified atmosphere of 5 O 5 COand 90 N. Fertilization check was performed 16 18 hours after insemination or ICSI. The zygotes with clear two pronuclei were cultured for another 48 hours in Sage Cleavage Medium with 10 SPS. Oocytes with single pronucleus 1PN or three or more pronuclei were considered abnormally fertilized. If Day 5 blastocyst transfer was indicated extended embryo culture was be performed in Quinn s Advantage Blastocyst medium Cooper Surgical with 10 SPS for 48 hours before transfer. Of note the same culture media was used during the study time period.

A single team of experienced embryologists evaluated the embryos on post retrieval day 3 68 to 72 hours after oocyte harvest. Embryos were examined for cleavage cell number and grade which includes cytoplastmic fragmentation. Embryos were graded as follows on Day 3 Grade 1 blastomeres have equal size and no cytoplasmic fragmentation Grade 2 blastomeres have equal size and minor cytoplasmic fragmentation involving 

Indications for assisted hatching AH in our center were advanced maternal age elevated FSH level and or a history of multiple failed assisted reproduction cycles. On the day of embryo transfer embryos for hatching were placed in phosphate buffered saline PBS with 10 SPS. AH was accomplished by using the ZILOS tk laser Hamilton Thorne Biosciences Beverly Mass. to make a hole in an area of the zona pellucida that was between blastomeres. Embryos were then rinsed and returned to the media until transfer.

Ultrasound guided embryo transfer was performed using a Tefcat or Echotip Softpass catheter Cook Ob Gyn Spencer Ind. . Progesterone supplementation with vaginal suppositories was performed in all patients. For patients having embryo transfer on Day 3 any remaining embryos with more than five blastomeres were placed in extended culture for another 2 or 3 days. Any expanding expanded and hatching blastocysts with good inner cell mass and trophectoderm were frozen on day 5 or day 6. In addition cryopreservation was performed on excess embryos severe ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome and fertility preservation due to medical or social reasons. Excess embryos that were not transferred were commonly discarded if they were not of sufficient quality for cryopreservation or if patients did not opt for embryo cryopreservation due to non medical reasons. In cases of pre implantation genetic diagnosis embryos that tested positive for genetic diseases or aneuploidy were also discarded.

Serum quantitative hCG levels were obtained at 8 10 days after embryo transfer and followed serially until the diagnosis of clinical pregnancy was made by the presence of a gestational sac on transvaginal ultrasound. Outcomes other than clinical pregnancy included 1 no pregnancy if serum quantitative hCG was negative 2 biochemical pregnancy as defined by decreasing serum quantitative hCG levels before a gestational sac could be visualized by transvaginal ultrasound 3 spontaneous abortion as defined by pregnancy loss after a gestational sac was visualized by transvaiginal ultrasound and 4 ectopic pregnancy and 5 other abnormal gestations such as gestational trophoblastic disease. Live birth outcomes were obtained by follow up contact with patients as part of routine clinical care but they were not used in this study.

Clinical IVF data especially when considering oocyte and embryo parameters often do not lend themselves to meaningful analysis by multivariate logistic regression. The high degree of interaction and multicollinearity of many relevant variables interfere with conventional multivariate regression. In these situations the regression and classification tree models CART has been widely used in clinical research Fonarow G C Jama 293 572 580 2005 Friedman J 1999 Greedy function approximation A stochastic boosting machine. Technical Report Department of Statistics Stanford University Friedman J 1999 Stochastic gradient boosting. Technical Report Department of Statistics Stanford University Friedman J 2002 Tutorial Getting started with MART in R. Department of Statistics Stanford University Friedman et al. Stat Med 22 1365 1381 2003 Guzick et al. N Engl J Med 345 1388 1393 2001 Pilote et al. N Engl J Med 335 1198 1205 1996 . Here we used Multiple Additive Regression Tree MART a more powerful statistical method that combines boosting with CART to boost or increase accuracy in the CART method to identify non redundant prognostic variables.

In general regression trees have several key advantages 1 ability to consider all types of clinical IVF and embryology data including numeric ordinal binary and categorical variables 2 ability to handle missing values well based on a surrogate splitting technique without the need for imputation 3 ability to generate results that are invariant to monotonic data transformation and thus eliminate the need to test different methods of data transformation or metrics 4 ability to generate trees that are immune to the effects of extreme outliers 5 ability to generate trees that inherently explore and identify interactions of variables that would otherwise need to be explicitly stated in a multiple logistic regression. Most importantly regression trees can consider a large number of variables including ones that may turn out to be irrelevant even if only a small number of variables have significant statistical impact on outcomes. This ability to consider many variables is critical for analysis of IVF outcomes as many variables such as percentage of 8 cell embryos number of 8 cell embryos percentage of 8 cell embryos transferred and number of 8 cell embryos transferred may be highly interactive thus arbitrarily selecting one of them may compromise completeness of data and introduce bias while including all of them may cause the conventional multivariate regression to breakdown.

The results from MART may help to identify variables that could be re analyzed by multivariate logistic regression. Often they may identify thresholds or cut offs that will be used to create categorical variables to segregate cases into subgroups for further inter group comparison of characteristics by conventional methods such as t tests chi square analysis or Wilcoxon rank sum test. For example CART analysis was used by Guzick et al. to classify men as subfertile of indeterminate fertile status or fertile based on threshold values for sperm concentration motility and morphology exemplifies the power of this strategy in infertility research Guzick et al. N Engl J Med 345 1388 1393 2001 .

3 5 week old wild type F1 C57BL6xDBA 2 females Charles River were superovulated by intraperitonial injections of 5 IU of pregnant mare s serum gonadotropin Sigma followed by 5 IU of human chorionic gonadotropin Sigma 48 hours later and mated overnight with wild type males. Mice were sacrificed by cervical dislocation 17 hours after hCG injection and 1 cell embryos were released from oviducts. Cumulus cells were removed by hyaluronidase Sigma treatment and pipetting. Pre implantation embryos at the two pronuclei stage were recovered pooled from 3 6 females in M2 media Chemicon International followed by immediate cytoplasmic microinjection and culture in Human Tubal Fluid with 10 serum supplement In Vitro Fertilization Inc. microdrops under mineral oil Sigma in mixed gas 90 nitrogen 5 oxygen 5 carbon dioxide Praxair at 37 C. and cultured at ten embryos per 20 L drop.

25 nt antisense morpholino oligonucleotides MOs that specifically target the 5 UTR or translational start site or controls mismatched at 5 nts were purchased from Gene Tools LLC. See Table 1 for sequence details . We had determined 0.6 0.75 mM to be the maximal concentration that would allow normal rates of blastocyst development data not shown . Hence unless otherwise specified 5 10 pL of 0.75 mM Ccna2 MO 0.60 mM for Oct4 MO was injected into the cytoplasm of each embryo on an inverted microscope Olympus IX70 equipped with hydraulic micromanipulation system IM300 Microinjector Narishige Japan . 10 uninjected control embryos were used in each experiment which was performed at least three times. The mean percentage and standard error of the mean mean s.e.m. of embryos progressing to or arresting at each developmental stage were calculated and statistical significance was determined by calculating the p value using 2 tailed Student s t test.

Injected and control embryos were collected at 2 cell stage 43 hours post human chorionic gonadotropin hCG administration and washed in PBS containing 3 mg mL polyvinylpyrrolidone PVP . For immunoblot injected and control embryos were lysed in RIPA buffer 50 mM Tris HCl pH7.5 150 mM NaCl 1 mM EDTA 1 Nonident P 40 2 mg ml aprotonin 2 mg ml leupeptin 1 mg ml pepstain and 20 mg ml phenylmethylsulfonyl containing a phosphatase inhibitor cocktail Roche boiled in Laemli buffer and stored at 80 C. until lysates from 75 embryos were collected for each condition. Samples were loaded and analyzed by electrophoresis on 10 Tris HCl polyacrylamide gel semi dry transferred onto nitrocellulose membrane Bio Rad blocked in 0.1 Tween 20 1 Casein TBS Blocking Solution Bio Rad incubated overnight in 1 250 diluted primary rabbit polyclonal anti cyclin A2 antibody Santa Cruz Biotechnologies sc 751 at 4 C. and in 1 2000 diluted secondary donkey anti rabbit horseradish peroxidase linked antibody Amersham NA934V for one hour at room temperature and visualized using ECL Blotting Detection Reagent Amersham . Immunocytochemistry was performed according to standard protocol. Briefly embryos were fixed in 4 paraformaldehyde PBS solution permeabilized in 0.1 Triton X PBS and treated with ImageIT FX Signal Enhancer solution Invitrogen at RT incubated in 1 100 diluted primary antibody overnight at 4 C. in 1 10 000 diluted secondary antibody for one hour followed by 3 M DAPI for 10 min. and were mounted in VectaShield Mounting Medium Vector Laboratories H 1000 . Controls were performed in parallel with normal rabbit or mouse serum control. All antibodies were diluted in 1 BSA. Embryos were imaged by confocal microscopy using LSM 510 Confocal Laser Scanning Microscope or epifluorescence microscopy or the Axiovert 200 microscope equipped with an Axiocam digital camera Zeiss using fixed parameters and exposure times. Primary antibodies were purchased from Santa Cruz Biotechnologies anti cyclin A2 rabbit polyclonal sc 751 normal rabbit IgG sc 2027 mouse monoclonal anti Oct4 sc 5279 and normal mouse IgG sc 2025 . Secondary antibodies were purchased from Molecular Probes Alexa Fluor 594 goat anti rabbit IgG A 11012 and goat anti mouse IgG A 11001 .

Full length mouse cDNA clone Oct4 pSPORT clone ID 30019896 Open Biosystems and a plasmid encoding the fluorescence mitotic biosensor a modified enhanced yellow fluorescence protein mEYFP were sequence verified linearized by restriction enzyme digest and used as templates. 5 capped and polyadenylated mRNA transcripts were transcribed in vitro mMessage and PolyA Tail kits Ambion which were then quantitated by UV spectroscopy and analyzed by electrophoresis to confirm size.

Samples containing 20 pooled injected or control mouse embryos were washed through 3 drops of PBS PVP and collected for total RNA extraction and isolation Picopure Total RNA Isolation Kit Molecular Devices Corp. to yield 10 L of total RNA. 5 L of total RNA or the equivalent of 10 mouse embryos was subjected to two rounds of amplification WT Ovation Pico system Nugen according to manufacturer s instructions. The quality of ssDNA resulting from the second round amplification was tested on the Bioanalyzer 2100 Agilent and a typical yield of 5 8 g per sample was quantitated by the ND 1000 UV spectrophotometer Nanodrop Technologies . Direct biotin labeling and fragmentation were performed FL Ovation cDNA Biotin Module Nugen . Fragmented labeled ssDNA samples were submitted to Stanford University PAN Core Facility for hybridization to the GeneChip Mouse Genome 430 2.0 Array Affymetrix and laser scanning.

Raw data from a total of 12 gene chips 3 Ccna2 MO and their uninjected controls and 3 Oct4 MO and their uninjected controls and were normalized by dChip Li C Wong WH 2003 in . Springer New York pp. 120 141 . Unsupervised clustering analysis was performed for genes that have 1 expression level greater than 500 Signal Intensity SI in at least 10 percent of the samples 2 standard deviation to mean ratio 0.4 and 

Lysis buffer was added to PBS PVP washed embryos Cells to cDNA kit Ambion and samples were treated with 1 L of DNAse I. Reverse transcription RT was performed by using 1.0 L of SuperScript III RT enzyme 200 U L as per protocol Invitrogen . Amplification of gene specific product by TaqPolymerase High Fidelity Kit Invitrogen was performed on the thermocycler Mastercycler gradient 5331 Eppendorf as follows 94.0 C. for 2 min. 94.0 C. for 15 sec. 60.0 C. for 30 sec. 68.0 C. for 45 sec 68.0 C. for 7 minutes for 50 cycles. See Table 2 for all primer sequence and TaqMan probes . Single embryo qRT PCR was performed using the Biomark 48.48 Dynamic Array system Fluidigm South San Francisco Calif. . Single embryos were treated with acid tyrode and collected in 10 l reaction buffer followed by preamplification as per manufacturer s instructions TaqMan Gene Expression Assay Applied Biosystems Table S8 . Amplified cDNA was loaded onto a 48.48 Dynamic Array using the NanoFlex IFC controller Fluidigm . Threshold cycle C as a measurement of relative fluorescence intensity was extracted from the BioMark PCR analysis software Fluidigm . All reactions were performed in duplicates or triplicates along with negative RT PBS and positive controls in at least three to five independent experiments. Data for each gene assayed were tested with a linear model ANCOVA in which C Condition C Gapdh C beta actin where Condition referred to no injection or Oct4 knockdown. Cvalues were directly used in data analysis as gene expression at the single cell level has been shown to follow a lognormal distribution.

Of all 1117 IVF treatments performed at Stanford University in 2005 822 were fresh IVF cycles that used the patients own oocytes panel A . Based on our exclusion criteria 157 cycles were excluded for a variety of medical and non medical reasons.

The 157 cycles that were excluded consisted of cancelled oocyte retrieval due to poor ovarian stimulation 63 cycles cancelled embryo transfer due to complete lack of embryo development 8 cycles cancelled embryo transfer due to unexpected medical or non medical reasons 35 cycles cycles that were not treated with gonadotropins 3 cycles missing outcomes 8 cycles and women being 45 years of age based on age alone 29 cycles . In our study 160 patients underwent subsequent repeat cycles after a previously failed attempt for a total of 368 cycles. Of these 126 patients had 2 IVF cycles performed 25 patients had 3 cycles 6 patients had 4 cycles 1 patient had 5 cycles and 2 patients had 6 cycles performed in the same year at the same institution. 511 cycles 76.8 with Day 3 embryo transfer and 154 cycles 23.2 with Day 5 transfer or a total of 665 IVF cycles fulfilled the inclusion and exclusion criteria for analyses.

Clinical and embryology data on the remaining 665 cycles that satisfied inclusion and exclusion criteria and their 4144 embryos respectively were analyzed to test the hypothesis that cohort specific variables predict IVF cycle outcomes . Of those 4144 embryos the number of blastomeres or cells on day 3 was recorded for 4002 embryos 96.6 . Overall 38.8 had 8 cells the developmentally appropriate cell number while 18.2 of embryos had 4 cells and 33.6 had 5 7 cells .

We systematically examined the association of each variable with IVF outcomes and the correlation of each pair of variables. Pair wise logistic regression tests confirmed many known prognostic variables including female age day 3 FSH and the number of 8 cell embryos. However in addition to these known prognostic variables we observed that cohort specific variables such as fertilization rate and the rate of cleavage arrest were also significantly associated with IVF cycle outcome p

Sequential Multiple Additive Regression Tree MART and Classification and Regression Tree CART analyses of all 30 variables listed in Table 3 and its legend determined that IVF cycle outcomes were most accurately predicted at 70 by using only four non redundant variables total number of embryos rate of cleavage arrest in an embryo cohort the number of 8 cell embryos in a cohort and day 3 FSH level. Remarkably these four variables all describe the embryo cohort rather than individual embryos and were more informative than age clinical diagnoses or any measures of the transferred embryos. Interestingly the total number of embryos day 3 FSH and the number of 8 cell embryos depended on and thus captured the effects of many other variables. In contrast the rate of cleavage arrest was independent of any of those known variables. Details on MART and CART analyses are reported in Table 5 and .

Of the prognostic thresholds identified the most robust phenotypes are A1 and A2 and B1 and B2 Table 6 . Number of embryos 14.6 are 3.0 times more likely to result in no pregnancy than those with cleavage arrest rate 14.6 95 CI 1.9 to 4.9 .

In contrast the rest of the thresholds listed in Table 6 are used by only 1 CART model each and is applicable to fewer cases. However as some of those phenotypes describe very specific subset of cases and have odds ratios that are highly discriminatory they may be extremely useful depending on the clinical or translational research context. For example for cases with 6 embryos having cleavage arrest rates of 14.6 52.8 and 52.8 increase the odds of no pregnancy by 2.6 95 CI 1.6 to 4.3 and 10.6 95 CI 3.2 to 49.6 respectively when compared to cases with cleavage rates of 14.6 .

To overcome the challenges presented by the highly interactive nature and potentially non linear dependence amongst variables and their multicollinearity all 30 variables listed in Table 5 and its legend were analyzed by MART to generate models that utilize non redundant prognostic variables. Eight models were generated by MART with increasing complexity of individual trees for boosting while the learning rate was chosen to produce a minimum test error for the given complexity. Among them the 3 top ranking models had cross validated CV prediction error rates of 0.301 to 0.308 which separated them well from the other five models whose CV error rates ranged from 0.315 to 0.331 Table 5 . The third model however was based on very complex individual trees yet showed a larger CV error than the two preceding models thus it was excluded from the analysis. The resulting two top models consistent with characteristics of meaningful regression tree models used very few trees and shared common features such that the two models collectively used only 5 trees containing 5 variables while some of the other models used up to 16 to 30 trees each.

These 5 non redundant prognostic variables were total number of embryos the rate of cleavage arrest the number of 8 cell embryos day 3 FSH level and the number of 8 cell embryos transferred. In each model removal of each of the first four variables while keeping all other parameters constant increased the error rate of the model thus confirming their significant contribution. However removal of the number of 8 cell embryos transferred did not alter the error rate data not shown which suggested that this variable was less relevant than others.

24 models representing all possible combinations of these 5 variables were analyzed by CART to further define thresholds that have prognostic significance. The top 5 trees generated by CART had superior prediction scores 0.6828 to 0.6950 compared to the rest of the models 0.565 to 0.6700 . As there were shared features these top 5 tree models utilize mostly the same threshold conditions for 4 variables while the variable number of 8 cell embryos transferred was not utilized by any of these top models. Therefore IVF cycle outcomes could be most accurately predicted at 70 by using only four non redundant variables that are more informative than age clinical diagnoses or any measures of the transferred embryos.

In order to understand which factors amongst patient characteristics diagnoses and IVF treatment characteristics in turn determined these four non redundant cohort specific prognostic variables tree models were constructed by MART to represent the dependence of each of these four prognostic variables. The total number of embryos day 3 FSH and the number of 8 cell embryos depended on and thus captured the effects of many other variables . In contrast the rate of cleavage arrest was independent of any of those known variables.

Here we provide proof of concept of the efficiency and specificity of MO mediated gene knockdown by testing the procedure on the Ccna2 gene. We then report the novel role of Oct4 that was revealed by MO mediated gene knockdown. Ccna2 the gene encoding cell cycle regulator cyclin A2 has been suggested as an important transcriptional regulator in embryonic genome activation Hara K T et al. 2005 Dev Biol 286 102 113 a critical developmental milestone at the 1 to 2 cell stages for which few clear mechanisms or regulators have emerged. Consistent with the literature MO mediated Ccna2 knockdown decreased cyclin A2 protein expression. In addition our results showed that cyclin A2 is required for development beyond the 2 cell stage panels A C panels A D Tables 1 and 7 . MOs block translation of transcripts by steric hindrance in an efficient and gene specific manner which has been well established in zebrafish and other model organisms Gore A V et al. 2005 438 1030 1035 Imai et al. 2006 . 312 1183 1187 Sumanas S Larson J D 2002 1 239 256 Yamada L et al. 2003 130 6485 6495 . Most importantly MOs mediate rapid knockdown of transcripts regardless of their maternal or embryonic origin before activation of downstream genes can provide partial rescue of the phenotype. Unlike siRNAs MOs function independently of endogenous pathways so the MO mediated translational block should not limit knockdown efficiency or interfere with the endogenous mRNA degradation machinery.

By combining MO mediated gene knockdown with global gene expression profiling and single embryo level quantitative RT PCR q PCR we determined the influence of Oct4 on gene expression and analyzed the Oct4 regulated gene network in the early embryo and . Consistent with the literature we confirmed Oct4 gene expression at the 1 cell stage . After 1 cell embryos were microinjected with 0.6 mM Oct4 MO the rate of developmental arrest at the 1 to multicell stages was dramatically higher than that observed for uninjected and mismatch Oct4 MM controls panels A and B . Of embryos injected with Oct4 MO that reached the multicell stage 86.8 8.3 arrested and did not form morulae compared to 10.5 10.5 embryos injected with Oct4 MM p

The critical function of Oct4 at the 1 to 2 cell transition was embryo autonomous. The effects of Oct4 knockdown could not be rescued by media conditioned by uninjected embryos or the in vivo environment provided by transferring injected embryos to oviducts of appropriately timed surrogate mothers data not shown . Co injection of low 3.6 ng L or high 3.6 ng L concentrations of unaltered full length Oct4 mRNA with 0.6 mM Oct4 MO resulted in a decrease in the percentage of embryos arresting at the 1 to multicell stages compared to co injection of control mRNA encoding a modified enhanced yellow fluorescent protein mEYFP panel B . No embryos co injected with Oct4 mRNA arrested at the multicell stage while 80.0 5.2 arrested after co injection of mEYFP mRNA p

Injection of Oct4 mRNA resulted in over expression as quantified by q PCR but did not cause ectopic expression of Oct4 protein data not shown . Oct4 over expression indeed induced developmental arrest in a dosage dependent manner while injection of comparable or greater amounts of mEYFP mRNA interfered minimally with blastocyst development panel C . The gene dosage effect of Oct4 RNA injection may be due to enhanced Oct4 functions in transcriptional regulation or Oct4 over production may allow non specific promoter binding or extra Oct4 causes inappropriate sequestration and subsequent inactivation of co factors. Collectively these data definitively showed Oct4 expression was required and that its correct level was critical to early embryo development just as pluripotency of ESCs depends on a precise range of Oct4 expression levels Stefanovic S Puceat M 2007 6 8 10 .

To dissect the mechanisms of Oct4 function we compared the global gene expression profile of Oct4 knockdown embryos to the effects of Ccna2 knockdown and to uninjected controls at the mid 2 cell stage. The goal was to identify differential gene expression that coincides with the first major wave of embryonic genome activation at the mid 2 cell stage Hamatani T Carter M G Sharov A A Ko M S 2004 6 117 1317 Wang Q T et al. 2004 6 133 1448 Tables 8 A and B 9 A and B . Analysis by an unsupervised algorithm showed that the embryo samples clustered according to the experimental conditions which further supported the specific and non random effects of gene knockdown panel A . At an arbitrary threshold false detection rate FDR of 0.05 the Oct4 regulated gene set is five times larger compared to the number of genes changing expression in response to cyclin A2 knockdown panel B . The different sizes of the under expressed versus over expressed Oct4 knockdown gene sets suggest that Oct4 may be predominantly activating rather than repressing transcription panel B . Some of the Oct4 candidate target genes have previously been identified as putative Oct4 targets based on mESC chromatin immunoprecipitation ChIP data or genomic sequence analysis of Oct4 binding sites Zhou Q Chipperfield H Melton D A Wong W H 2007 104 16438 16443 Table 10 .

The list of cyclin A2 regulated genes was rich in genes encoding factors for chromatin modification and remodelling p 0.005 nucleotide metabolism p 0.01 and chromosome organization p 0.01 Tables 11 A and B . Oct4 regulated genes were significantly enriched for translation p 1.1 10 and RNA processing functions p 3.0 10 Tables 11 C and D . Comparison of our data with published Oct4 regulated networks in mouse ESCs indicates that Oct4 has distinct and specific post transcriptional and translational regulatory functions mediated by its control of genes encoding subunits in eukaryotic translation initiation factors Eif including Eif3c and Eif3b. Interestingly these two Eif subunits are evolutionarily conserved from yeast to human and are amongst the six subunits comprising the functional core of mammalian Eif3 the largest of the Eif complexes Masutani M Sonenberg N Yokoyama S Imataka H 2007 26 3373 3383 . In addition to its embryo specific function Oct4 also controls the expression of genes encoding post transcriptional regulators Dppa5 and Piwil2 also known as Mili as it does in ESCs data not shown . Dppa5 is an embryo germ cell and ESC specific RNA binding protein whose role in maternal embryonic transition is not known. However Piwil2 and its bound pi RNAs are known for their role in regulating retrotransposons in the fully grown mouse oocyte Watanabe T et al. 2008 453 539 543.26 . Collectively our data indicate that the Oct4 has a distinct developmental stage specific role in controlling genes encoding post transcriptional regulators in addition to its conserved functions shared amongst pluripotent cell types.

Table 8A Genes That Have Higher Expression Levels In Oct4 MO Injected Compared To Uninjected Embryos Following the Examples Section 

Table 8B Genes That Have Lower Expression Levels In Oct4 MO Injected Compared To Uninjected Embryos Following the Examples Section 

Table 9A Genes That Have Higher Expression Levels In Ccna2 MO Injected Compared To Uninjected Embryos Following the Examples Section

Table 9B Genes That Have Lower Expression Levels In Ccna2 MO Injected Compared To Uninjected Embryos Following the Examples Section 

In order to understand the role of Oct4 in reprogramming the early embryo we examined its role in embryonic genome activation and maternal transcript degradation. Overall Oct4 regulates gene expression pertinent to basic machinery required for the entire spectrum of gene regulation including transcription involving all three RNA polymerases translation RNA processing such as regulation of polyadenylation and mRNA degradation proteins Table 12 . High levels of mRNA from developmental genes such as Six1 Nestin and Hoxa3 indicated that Oct4 was required for their repression while excessive levels of maternal transcripts that would normally be rapidly degraded such as Zar1 and Nobox1 indicated that Oct4 knockdown interfered with the mRNA degradation machinery. Thus Oct4 has developmental stage and cell specific functions and has an important role in the processes that mark maternal embryonic transition.

To further define the Oct4 regulated gene network we selected 42 genes representing transcriptional post transcriptional and signaling functions for q PCR assays. We analyzed RNA from single Oct4 MO injected and control embryos and focused on genes that were under expressed in Oct4 knockdown. After removing data related to 3 genes for which there were technical difficulties expression changes of 39 genes were appropriately measured based on analysis using a linear model See Methods and Materials . Of those 34 or 87 showed altered expression levels in Oct4 knockdown in the expected directions panel C and while 5 genes including Sox2 did not change data not shown . 21 of the 34 genes or 62 showed statistically significant differential expression by q PCR at p

Our single embryo data allowed us to go beyond simply validating our gene chip data. Methods using samples comprised of pooled cells or embryos generate relative gene expression that represents an average of all cells assayed but they cannot discern between genes that are consistently differentially regulated versus those with a tendency towards stochastic changes similarly rare outlier embryos expressing unique transcriptomes are not recognized Bengtsson M Stahlberg A Rorsman P Kubista M 2005 15 1388 1392 Chang H H et al. 2008 453 544 547 Warren L Bryder D Weissman I L Quake S R 2006 103 17807 17812 . By analyzing quantitative expression data at the single embryo level we were able to make this discrimination. We presume genes whose relative expression is consistent amongst single embryos have a higher likelihood to be essential nodes in a gene regulatory network which is expected to respond to perturbations in a consistent and predictable manner. The gene set was restricted to genes whose differential expression represented by the difference in threshold cycles C Cis greater than expression differences amongst single embryos represented by standard error of the mean s.e.m. . We propose a hierarchy in the Oct4 regulated gene network in which 29 genes are ordered based on their increasing s.e.m. or inter embryo variation and presumed decreasing biological significance in this network panel A . Taken together we have identified and ranked potential key nodes of this network in a quantitative fashion.

The data shows that in the unique developmental context of maternal embryonic transition concomitant with massive mRNA degradation and dramatic reprogramming Oct4 controls the expression of many transcriptional regulators. Oct4 also maintains the expression of many genes such as Eif3c Papola Piwil2 Eif3b Eif4e Rbm3 and Cpsf4 that are involved in the post transcriptional control. Through its influence on both the transcriptional and post transcriptional regulators Oct4 can directly or indirectly affect many essential processes such as chromatin remodelling epigenetic regulation apoptosis cell cycle regulation and signalling during early developmental program panel B .

In the US 7.3 million couples suffer from clinical infertility for which more than 120 000 IVF treatment cycles are performed per year. IVF is the most effective treatment for many infertility couples but it is largely empiric and may not result in a live birth for some couples despite multiple attempts. IVF treatment has revolutionized how physicians can help subfertile patients but success rates with the use of autologous oocytes appear to have reached a plateau in the past decade. At an average cost of 12 000 per cycle IVF treatment alone costs health care payers most of whom are the couples themselves more than 1 billion per year. However the decision making process for IVF can be daunting because IVF counseling and management decisions are often made based on the woman s chronological age with non standardized ways to adjust for various estimates of ovarian reserve and embryo quality. Further quality of care is thought to vary amongst IVF clinics but head to head comparisons are not possible in the absence of scientifically and rigorously defined prognostic stratification of patients. For a treatment that is physically emotionally and financially demanding patients may feel that they are rolling the dice when deciding on whether to start or repeat IVF treatment. Consequently there may be incongruence in patient or self selection for IVF such that some patients with truly poor prognosis may develop unrealistic expectations while others with truly good prognosis may miss opportunities for effective treatment. Although numerous publications have reported variables including chronological age of the female patient that are significantly associated with IVF outcomes their contribution relative to outcomes is not clear and we are even less certain how to directly apply those findings to counsel patients.

Accordingly in the example we applied MART to analyze dichotomous live birth outcomes of a larger four year data set on 3338 fresh non oocyte donor IVF cycles and their associated embryos including subsequent transfer of cryopreserved embryos from 2003 to 2006. Importantly 57 variables pertaining to clinical diagnoses treatment response and embryo developmental parameters from 1 879 fresh first cycles were used to generate prediction models in an unbiased manner with no pre selection of variables based on previous literature. We identified four prognostic factors the percentage of blastocysts Blast Rate total number of embryos Embryo Number total amount of gonadotropins required TG and endometrial thickness EndoTh that determine live birth outcomes. The prognostic contribution of other variables such as age and the number of 8 cell stage embryos on day 3 were optional once these four prognostic variables were known. Finally the results show how our approach and findings can be applied to immediately improve patient counseling and management protocols and how these rigorously defined prognostic criteria can fuel our concerted effort to improve quality assurance and decrease rates of multiple gestation.

Between Jan. 1 2003 to Dec. 31 2006 5037 IVF treatments were performed in total with annual volumes that were comparable across years. Of those 3347 were fresh IVF cycles that used the patients own oocytes and that fulfilled inclusion criteria. After applying exclusion criteria 3338 cycles remained of which 1879 were first IVF cycles C1 778 were second IVF cycles performed for patients who did not have live birth outcomes in C1 and who returned for their second treatment C2 312 were third IVF cycles C3 369 cycles were fourth fifth and sixth cycles which were not analyzed and .

Data from C1 C2 and C3 were subsequently analyzed separately. Overall 41 of embryos had 8 blastomeres the developmentally appropriate cell number while 17 of embryos had 4 cells and 33 had 5 7 cells and 9 had more than 8 cells . This profile of in vitro human embryo development in IVF was consistent with previous reports. Further the number of blastomeres formed by 10 687 3 932 and 1 573 embryos by Day 3 of in vitro culture in C1 C2 and C3 were not significantly different which suggested that embryo development was comparable amongst the first three cycles p 0.6 .

We used C1 data only to generate our prediction models because patients dropped out for a variety of reasons for which there were no controls and we did not want significant prognostic factors to be masked by cycle number we did not know whether the drop out rates were comparable amongst patient subsets that varied in their prognoses. Consistent with other reports a significant number of patients who had no live births dropped out after each unsuccessful cycle and did not return for subsequent treatments. Nonetheless C2 and C3 data were used to test whether the prediction models held true for subsequent treatments.

We first focused on 1879 C1 cycles and their associated 10 687 embryos that satisfied all inclusion and exclusion criteria. We systematically examined the association of each of 57 variables with live birth outcomes. These variables were chosen based on the quality and completeness of data entry rather than prior scientific or clinical knowledge. Pair wise logistic regression confirmed significant association of many variables with live birth outcomes including patient s age male partner s age Day 3 FSH and the number of prior clinical pregnancy losses p

We noted that many pairs of variables such as age and total amount of gonadotropins used were highly correlated with one another Table 14 . Although these findings are consistent with the presumed complex and poorly understood biological mechanisms amongst ovarian aging ovarian hormone production and egg quality those interactions could not be studied well by ANOVA using Chi square statistics tests data not shown presumably because they do not interact in a linear fashion or multiple conditions may affect the nature of the interactions.

We chose to analyze data and generate prediction models by constructing boosted classification trees by MART to identify non redundant prognostic variables. MART is a robust method used to identify interactive structure of variables that are predictive of outcomes. The use of cross validation and boosting in parameter selection and model assessment in MART also preserve parsimony and prevent over fitting. Finally MART does not presume the absence or presence of interactions or the nature of the interactions.

Consistent with our goal to facilitate real life decision making we used boosted tree from MART to generate three prediction models each of which utilized variables that would be available at a specific time point during IVF planning and treatment. As shown by the schematics in the Pre IVF model was limited to 21 variables primarily pertaining to patients baseline characteristics clinical diagnoses the Pre oocyte retrieval Pre OR model utilized the same 21 variables pertaining to patient s response to ovarian stimulation in addition to 9 variables used in the Pre IVF model for a total of 30 variables the Post IVF model used all variables in Pre IVF and Pre OR in addition to data pertaining to embryo development and embryo parameters related to transfer or cryopreservation for a total of 57 variables.

MART analysis of 1879 C1 patients with respect to 21 continuous and categorical variables that are known prior to starting IVF treatment see Table 13 showed that each of patient s age and the diagnosis of diminished ovarian reserve DOR alone as well as their interaction predicted live birth outcomes. At our center DOR has been routinely used to describe patients who showed a history of poor response to ovarian stimulation by gonadotropins in controlled ovarian hyperstimulation intrauterine insemination COH IUI treatment. While the presence of DOR is a negative predictor for LB it only pertained to 12 of the population. The rest of the patients were stratified by age. However the model identified age thresholds i.e. 40.5 42.5 and 46.5 that were vastly different from thresholds i.e. 42 that are arbitrarily and commonly used in the literature ref . Overall 5 patient subsets hereafter populations were discerned by this model with LB rates of 21 39 27 17 and 4 for 222 12 of all C1 patients 690 37 176 9 581 31 and 199 11 patients respectively .

In this model 30 variables known by the time of oocyte retrieval from the same population comprising 1879 C1 patients were analyzed by MART. Three independent prognostic factors were identified total amount of gonadotropins required TG age and endometrial thickness EndoTh . Again although each of these prognostic factors had been reported to be associated with LB outcomes for the first time we are objectively defining their thresholds and the nature of their potential interaction which are critical for clinical application. Overall this model identified 7 distinct populations with respect to their LB rates spanning 2 51 28 32 18 37 and 8 for 26 1.4 of all C1 patients 387 21 58 3 200 11 662 35 141 8 and 405 22 patients in Populations Pops 1 to 7 . In addition to precisely parsed populations the striking findings were the miniscule chance of LB outcomes for patients who had EndoTh44.5 Pop 7 . A mere combination of Pops 1 5 and 7 showed that 1119 or 60 of all C1 patients had a very low LB rate of 13.5 .

The Post IVF model was generated by MART based on all 57 variables listed in Table 1. Of note this analysis was restricted to 1664 of the 1879 C1 patients because 215 patients did not complete their IVF treatment and had cycle cancellation primarily due to suboptimal ovarian response. Four significant prognostic factors Blast Rate Embryo Number TG and EndoTh sufficed to differentiate 6 populations with LB rates ranging from 7 39 17 54 36 and 72 for 361 19 of patients analyzed 96 5.5 643 40 316 19 198 12 and 95 6 patients in Populations 1 to 6 .

We validated our models by testing whether live birth rates amongst populations are significantly different in related data sets comprised of patients whose C1 did not result in a live birth and who returned for repeat treatment in 778 2 cycles C2 and 312 3 cycles C3 . To further validate our results we also tested an independent data set comprised of C1 data from 343 non redundant patients who had IVF treatment in 2007. See Interestingly we noted that the composition of the overall IVF patient population altered in between cycles and between data sets.

We tested differential live birth rates amongst populations by ANOVA Chi square test which revealed that differential LB outcomes amongst populations remained significantly different in C2 and C3 from the 2003 2006 data set as well as C1 from the independent data set from 2007 for each of the Pre IVF Pre OR and Post IVF models with p values at 1.17E 50 8.69E 71 and 1.64E 96 respectively .

Then we validated our models in a different way by testing whether the live birth rates of each prognostically defined population was stable and unaltered amongst C1 C2 C3 of 2003 2006 data inter cycle hereafter and between C1 of 2007 and C1 of 2003 2006 data sets. The inter cycle comparison showed that all populations remained similar for the Pre OR and Post IVF models in the Pre IVF model only Pop 2 and Pop 4 showed that their live birth rates altered amongst cycles p 0.02 . See Table 15 for p values of inter cycle comparisons. Further comparison of populations between the 2003 2006 and 2007 data sets indicated that the Pre IVF and Post IVF models and most of the Pre OR models have remained constant and highly reproducible p 0.5 Pops 1 and 6 of the Pre OR model had differential live birth outcomes between the two data sets.

Collectively our results showed that all three models were effective in stratifying patients with differential live birth rates and this ability to stratify by prognosis is reproducible in subsequent cycles and in an independent data set despite changes in the composition of the general IVF patient population. Further we confirmed that the prognostic stratification and live birth prediction used in each model were reproducible and validated in an independent data set as well as in repeat cycles of returning patients.

We tested whether these prediction models defined patient populations better and more specifically than an age based control model hereafter control . See Methods for age based control model details. We show the population specific observed live birth outcomes compared to live birth rates predicted by the control for each five age categories 

We compared each of Pre IVF Pre OR and Post IVF models to the control with respect to the live birth rates in each of five age categories. Both the Pre OR and Post IVF models predicted live birth rates significantly better than the control model across populations in all five age groups p values range from 0.04 to 0.5E 16 see Table 15 for all p values of these comparisons . In the Pre IVF model in which age is a key prognostic factor the Pre IVF model predicted outcomes better than the control for the age group 38 40 presumably because it also considers the diagnosis of diminished ovarian reserve p 0.01 . In summary amongst patients who are undergoing their first fresh IVF cycle 17.7 of patients would receive more accurate and personalized live birth outcomes prediction from using the Pre IVF model and 76 of patients would benefit from using the Pre OR model. The utility of the Post IVF model is to facilitate decision making regarding subsequent IVF treatment in the event that live birth does not result from the first treatment its use as a prediction tool for subsequent cycles is analyzed more in depth later.

We asked whether population assignment in C1 predicts live birth rates in C2 and the cumulative live birth rates in C2 and C3 for patients who do not have a live birth from C1. These questions precisely address the frequent scenario in which a couple needs to decide whether to repeat IVF treatment after an unsuccessful cycle. We addressed these questions by assigning patients to populations based on the Post IVF model followed by tracking patients outcomes in C2 and C3. We considered both observed and hypothetical cumulative live birth rates. The observed cumulative rates were conservatively calculated based on the actual patients who returned for C2 and C3 the nominator was number of live births in C2 and C3 and the denominator was the total number of C2 cycles. The hypothetical cumulative rates were calculated based on the probability of having live birth outcomes in C2 or C3 and assumed that the patients who dropped out were no different from the ones who returned therefore they are not affected by the limited number of patients who chose to have C3. Specifically C1 assignment to Pops 1 and 3 resulted in observed cumulative live birth rates of 15.1 and 18.4 respectively and 27.5 for Pop 5. In contrast Pops 2 4 and 6 had much higher cumulative live birth rates of 56.7 42.9 and 75 respectively the hypothetical cumulative live birth rates had a trend towards being slightly higher . Therefore population assignment based on prognostic factors in C1 re defines the IVF population into subsets that have distinct and predictable cumulative live birth rates in C2 and C3.

We used gradient boosted machine GBM to perform analyses to determine the relative influence of each variable on live birth outcomes for all three models. Briefly we performed 10 fold cross validation for 1879 1879 and 1664 fresh cycles for Pre IVF Pre OR and Post IVF models respectively. The optimal numbers of trees were 4677 8680 and 10 745 for Pre IVF Pre OR and Post IVF models respectively 25 000 trees i.e. more than the minimum required were analyzed foreach model. The results are shown in Tables 16A 16B and 16C. The variables are ranked according to decreasing relative influence importance such that the most important variables are ranked at the top. The numbers for relative influence add up to 100 in each model.

These GBM outputs contain thousands of trees which cannot be visualized and are conceptually too abstract for most scientific and clinical discussions. Therefore we chose the top variables for further analysis to construct simpler tree models that could be visualized with Rpart. The advantages of simpler tree models were that they were conceptually more easily understood by scientists clinicians and lay people distinct sub populations can be characterized and subjected to further analyses to address specific questions and to explore the utility of the models.

Tables 16A 16B and 16C. List of variables and their relative importance in determining live birth outcomes in the Pre IVF Pre OR and Post IVF model respectively.

We successfully tested the expression of a panel of genes in dissociated blastomeres of control cryopreserved thawed human embryos that are at the 1 cell 4 cell and 8 cell stages. Patients donated those control embryos to research because they had completed their families. We analyzed the data by considering both standard deviation and mean. The results of gene chip experiments on the 1 cell 4 cell and 8 cell stages are provided in . These results show the utility of gene expression analysis at the single cell level as well examining expression of many genes simultaneously. As such the results show that the fingerprinting analysis for the embryos could be used to provide information that may improve prediction of live birth outcomes for subsequent IVF cycles.

The preceding merely illustrates the principles of the invention. It will be appreciated that those skilled in the art will be able to devise various arrangements which although not explicitly described or shown herein embody the principles of the invention and are included within its spirit and scope. Furthermore all examples and conditional language recited herein are principally intended to aid the reader in understanding the principles of the invention and the concepts contributed by the inventors to furthering the art and are to be construed as being without limitation to such specifically recited examples and conditions. Moreover all statements herein reciting principles aspects and embodiments of the invention as well as specific examples thereof are intended to encompass both structural and functional equivalents thereof. Additionally it is intended that such equivalents include both currently known equivalents and equivalents developed in the future i.e. any elements developed that perform the same function regardless of structure. The scope of the present invention therefore is not intended to be limited to the exemplary embodiments shown and described herein. Rather the scope and spirit of present invention is embodied by the appended claims.

