---

title: Methods of treating epilepsy with transforming growth factor beta inhibitors
abstract: The present invention provides methods of treating epilepsy and other neurological disorders. The methods generally involve administering to an individual in need thereof an effective amount of an agent that blocks a transforming growth factor-beta pathway.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09468649&OS=09468649&RS=09468649
owner: The Regents of the University of California
number: 09468649
owner_city: Oakland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20091204
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 120 218 filed Dec. 5 2008 which application is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Epilepsy affecting 0.5 2 of the population worldwide is one of the most common neurological disorders. While the characteristic electrical activity in the epileptic cortex has been extensively studied the mechanisms underlying epileptogenesis are poorly understood. Focal neocortical epilepsy often develops following traumatic ischemic or infectious brain injury. Under these conditions local compromise of blood brain barrier BBB integrity is common as revealed by ultrastructural studies of animal and human epileptic tissue in multiple forms of epilepsy raising the possibility that primary vascular damage and specifically BBB opening may serve as an initial event leading to epilepsy. This hypothesis has been confirmed by animal studies in which opening of the BBB was sufficient to induce delayed epileptiform activity. Subsequent studies have shown that albumin the most common serum protein is sufficient to recapitulate the epileptiform activity induced by BBB disruption and that albumin is selectively taken up by astrocytes Ivens et al. 2007 .

The present invention provides methods of preventing and treating epilepsy and other neurological disorders. The methods generally involve administering to an individual in need thereof an effective amount of an agent that blocks a transforming growth factor beta pathway.

As used herein the terms treatment treating and the like refer to obtaining a desired pharmacologic and or physiologic effect. The effect may be prophylactic in terms of completely or partially preventing a disease or symptom thereof and or may be therapeutic in terms of a partial or complete cure for a disease and or adverse affect attributable to the disease. Treatment as used herein covers any treatment of a disease in a mammal particularly in a human and includes a preventing the disease from occurring in a subject which may be predisposed to the disease but has not yet been diagnosed as having it b inhibiting the disease i.e. arresting its development and c relieving the disease i.e. causing regression of the disease.

The terms individual subject and patient used interchangeably herein refer to a mammal including but not limited to murines simians humans mammalian farm animals mammalian sport animals and mammalian pets.

A therapeutically effective amount or efficacious amount means the amount of a compound that when administered to a mammal or other subject for treating a disease is sufficient to effect such treatment for the disease. The therapeutically effective amount will vary depending on the compound the disease and its severity and the age weight etc. of the subject to be treated.

Before the present invention is further described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to particular embodiments described as such may of course vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting since the scope of the present invention will be limited only by the appended claims.

Where a range of values is provided it is understood that each intervening value to the tenth of the unit of the lower limit unless the context clearly dictates otherwise between the upper and lower limit of that range and any other stated or intervening value in that stated range is encompassed within the invention. The upper and lower limits of these smaller ranges may independently be included in the smaller ranges and are also encompassed within the invention subject to any specifically excluded limit in the stated range. Where the stated range includes one or both of the limits ranges excluding either or both of those included limits are also included in the invention.

Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. Although any methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can also be used in the practice or testing of the present invention the preferred methods and materials are now described. All publications mentioned herein are incorporated herein by reference to disclose and describe the methods and or materials in connection with which the publications are cited.

It must be noted that as used herein and in the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a TGF receptor antagonist includes a plurality of such antagonists and reference to the active agent includes reference to one or more active agents and equivalents thereof known to those skilled in the art and so forth. It is further noted that the claims may be drafted to exclude any optional element. As such this statement is intended to serve as antecedent basis for use of such exclusive terminology as solely only and the like in connection with the recitation of claim elements or use of a negative limitation.

The publications discussed herein are provided solely for their disclosure prior to the filing date of the present application. Nothing herein is to be construed as an admission that the present invention is not entitled to antedate such publication by virtue of prior invention. Further the dates of publication provided may be different from the actual publication dates which may need to be independently confirmed.

The present invention provides methods of treating epilepsy and other neurological disorders. The methods generally involve administering to an individual in need thereof an effective amount of an agent that blocks a transforming growth factor beta TGF pathway.

In some embodiments an effective amount of an agent that blocks a TGF pathway is an amount that is effective to reduce the incidence of an epileptic seizure in an individual by at least about 10 at least about 15 at least about 20 at least about 25 at least about 30 at least about 40 at least about 50 or more than 50 compared to the incidence of epileptic seizure in the individual in the absence of treatment with the agent.

In some embodiments an effective amount of an agent that blocks a TGF pathway is an amount that is effective to reduce the duration and or severity of an epileptic seizure in an individual by at least about 10 at least about 15 at least about 20 at least about 25 at least about 30 at least about 40 at least about 50 at least about 60 at least about 70 at least about 80 or more than 80 compared to the duration and or severity in the individual in the absence of treatment with the agent.

In some embodiments an effective amount of an agent that blocks a TGF pathway is an amount that is effective to return an astrocyte from an activated state to a resting state. In some embodiments an effective amount of an agent that blocks a TGF pathway is an amount that is effective to reduce astrocyte dysfunction by at least about 10 at least about 15 at least about 20 at least about 25 at least about 30 at least about 40 at least about 50 at least about 60 at least about 70 at least about 80 or more than 80 compared to the astrocyte dysfunction in the absence of the agent. Astrocyte function can be assessed using electrophysiological assays e.g. current recordings voltage clamp recordings assays designed to test extracellular K concentrations e.g. using electrodes that measure extracellular K levels and the like.

In some embodiments an effective amount of an agent that blocks a TGF pathway is an amount that is effective to increase cognitive function e.g. in an individual having reduced cognitive function as a result of a neurodegenerative disorder such as Alzheimer s Disease AD . In some embodiments an effective amount of an agent that blocks a TGF pathway is an amount that is effective to increase cognitive function in an individual having reduced cognitive function as a result of AD by at least about 10 at least about 15 at least about 20 at least about 25 at least about 30 at least about 40 at least about 50 at least about 60 at least about 70 at least about 80 at least about 2 fold at least about 5 fold or at least about 10 fold or more compared to the cognitive function in the individual in the absence of treatment with the agent.

A subject method is suitable for treating various disorders including e.g. epilepsy traumatic brain injury stroke and neurodegenerative diseases. A subject method is suitable for treating epilepsy including posttraumatic epilepsy and post ischemic epilepsy i.e. after stroke Parkinson s disease psychosis migraine cerebral ischemic Alzheimer s disease and other degenerative diseases such as neurological deficits associated with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome traumatic brain injury inappropriate neuronal activity resulting in neurodysthesias in diseases such as diabetes neurological complications of diabetes mellitus multiple sclerosis MS and motor neuron disease ataxias muscular rigidity spasticity and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ALS .

Suitable agents that block a TGF pathway include e.g. TGF receptor TGF R antagonists agents that inhibit the activity of a TGF pathway element downstream of a TGF R and agents that reduce the level of a TGF pathway element downstream of a TGF R. TGF pathway inhibitors include e.g. agents that inhibit phosphorylation of a TGF R agents that inhibit a kinase activity of a TGF R agents that inhibit phosphorylation of a TGF pathway element downstream of a TGF R and the like. TGF pathway elements that are downstream of a TGF R and that are targets of therapeutic agents as described herein include e.g. NF B Smad1 Smad2 Smad6 Stat3 Stat1 Jak1 MAPK Noggin Thbs1 thrombospondin 1 bone morphogenic protein 4 BMP4 bone morphogenic protein 6 BMP6 spp 1 secreted phosphoprotein 1 Pal 1 TGFB induced factor homeobox 1 Tgif1 Tumor necrosis factor TNF and ENG.

Suitable TGF R antagonists include inhibitors of kinase activity of a TGF R. TGF receptors include e.g. TGF I TGF II ALK1 and ALK5.

Suitable TGF R antagonists include e.g. a Sm2 peptide as disclosed in U.S. Patent Publication No. 2005 0136043 inhibitors of aldosterone anti TGF antibodies renin inhibitors angiotensin converting enzyme ACE inhibitors angiotensin II AII receptor antagonists anti TGF R antibodies and proteoglycans. Proteoglycans include e.g. decorin biglycan fibromodulin lumican betaglycan and endoglin.

Aldosterone inhibitors include e.g. eplerenone Inspra 7 11 17 pregn 4 ene 7 21 dicarboxylic acid 9 11 epoxy 17 hydroxy 3 oxo lactone methyl ester and compounds related thereto U.S. Pat. No. 4 559 332 spironolactone Aldactone 7 acetylthio 3 oxo 17 pregn 4 ene 21 17 carbolactone and compounds related thereto and a compound as described in e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 6 410 524.

AII receptor antagonists include e.g. losartan Cozaar 2 butyl 4 chloro 1 p o 1H tetrazol 5 ylphenyl benzyl imidazole 5 methanol monopotassium salt and the various substituted imidazole derivatives and other compounds related thereto see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 138 069 and WO 2007 020533 valsartan Diovan N p o 1H tetrazol 5 yl phenyl benzyl N valeryl L valine and compounds related thereto U.S. Pat. No. 5 399 578 irbesartan Avapro 2 n butyl 4 spirocyclopentane 1 2 tetrazol 5 yl biphenyl 4 yl 2 imidazolin 5 one and compounds related thereto U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 270 317 and 5 352 788 candesartan Amias Atacand 1 cyclohexyloxycarbonyloxy ethyl 2 ethoxy 1 2 1H tetrazol 5 yl biphenyl 4 yl methyl benzimidazole 7 carboxylate and compounds related thereto in U.S. Pat. No. 5 196 444 telmisartan Micardis 4 1 4 dimethyl 2 propyl 2 6 bi 1H benzimidazol 1 yl methyl 1 1 biphenyl 2 carboxylic acid and compounds related thereto European Pat. Application No. 6502314 tasosartan Verdia 5 8 dihydro 2 4 dimethyl 8 p o 1H tetrazol 5 ylphenyl pyrido 2 3 d pyrimidin 7 6H one and compounds related thereto U.S. Pat. No. 5 149 699 eprosartan Teveten 4 2 butyl 5 2 carboxy 2 thiophen 2 ylmethyl eth 1 en 1 yl 1H imidazol 1 ylmethyl benzoic acid and compounds related thereto U.S. Pat. No. 5 185 351 saralasin 1 N methylglycine 5 L valine 8 L alanineangiotensin II an octapeptide analog of Ang II bovine with amino acids 1 and 8 replaced with sarcosine and alanine respectively and a compound as disclosed in e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 484 780 6 028 091 and 6 329 384.

ACE inhibitors include e.g. benazepril Lotensin Lotrel 3 1 ethoxy carbonyl 3 phenyl 1S propyl amino 2 3 4 5 tetrahydro 2 oxo 1H 1 3S benzazepine 1 acetic acid monohydrochloride and its metabolite benazeprilat and compounds related thereto U.S. Pat. No. 4 410 520 captopril Capoten 1 2S 3 mercapto 2 methylpropionyl L proline and compounds related thereto U.S. Pat. No. 4 105 776 enalapril Vasotec 1 N S 1 carboxy 3 phenylpropyl L alanyl L proline 1 ethyl ester lisinopril Zestril 1 N.sub.2 S 1 carboxy 3 phenylpropyl L lysyl L proline and the various carboxyalkyl dipeptide derivatives and compounds related thereto U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 374 829 6 468 976 and 6 465 615 perindopril erbumine Aceon Coversyl 2S 3 S 7 S 1 S N S 1 carboxy butyl alanyl hexahydro 2 indolinecarboxylic acid 1 ethyl ester and compounds related thereto quinapril Accupril 3S 2 N S 1 ethoxycarbonyl 3 phenylpropyl L alanyl 1 2 3 4 tetrahydro isoquinoline 3 carboxylique monochlorhydrate and compounds related thereto ramipril Altace 2S 3 S 6 S 1 S N S 1 carboxy 3 phenylpropyl alanyl octahydrocyclopenta pyrrole 2 carboxylic acid 1 ethyl ester and compounds related thereto trandolapril Mavik 2S 3 R 7 S 1 S N S Carboxy 3 phenylpropyl alanyl hexa hydro 2 indolinecarboxylic acid 1 ethyl ester and compounds related thereto fosinopril Monopril L proline 4 cyclohexyl 1 2 methyl 1 1 oxopropoxy propoxyl 4 phenylbutyl phosphinyl acetyl sodium salt trans and compounds related thereto moexipril Univasc 3S 2 R R 3R 2 2 1 ethoxycarbonyl 3 phenylpropyl amino 1 oxopropyl 1 2 3 4 tetrahydro 6 7 dimethoxy 3 isoquinolinecarboxylic acid monohydrochloride and compounds related thereto and imidapril Tanatril 4S 3 2S 2 1S 1 ethoxycarbonyl 3 phenylpropyl amino propionyl 1 methyl 2 oxoimidazolidine 4 carboxylic acid hydrochloride and compounds related thereto.

Renin inhibitors include e.g. aliskiren SPP100 2 S 4 S 5 S 7 S N 2 carbamoyl 2 methylpropyl 5 amino 4 hydroxy 2 7 diisopropyl 8 4 methoxy 3 3 methoxypropoxy phenyl octanamid hemifumarate and compounds related thereto as disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 719 141 and WO 01 09079 enalkiren 1S 1R 2S 3R N 3 amino 3 methyl 1 oxobutyl O methyl L tyrosyl N 1 cyclohexylmethyl 2 3 dihydroxy 5 methylhexyl L histidinamide and compound related thereto and remikiren S 2 tert Butylsulphonylmethyl N S 1 1S 2R 3S 1 cyclo hexylmethyl 3 cyclopropyl 2 3 dihydroxypropylcarbamoyl 2 1H imidazol 4 yl methyl 3 phenylylpropionamide and compound related thereto.

Suitable NK B inhibitors include e.g. caffeic acid phenylethyl ester CAPE DM CAPE SN 50 peptide hymenialdisine and pyrrolidone dithiocarbamate.

Mitogen activated protein kinase MAPK inhibitor compounds suitable for the invention include for example 4 4 fluorophenyl 2 4 methylsulfinylphenyl 5 4 pyridyl 1H imidazole SB203580 4 3 Iodophenyl 2 4 methylsulfinylphenyl 5 4 pyridyl 1H imidazole SB203580 iodo 4 4 fluorophenyl 2 4 hydroxyphenyl 5 4 pyridyl 1H imidazole SB202190 5 2 amino 4 pyrimidyl 4 4 fluorophenyl 1 4 piperidinyl imidazole SB220025 4 4 fluorophenyl 2 4 nitrophenyl 5 4 pyridyl 1H imidazole PD 169316 and 2 amino 3 methoxyflavone PD98059 .

Suitable Smad inhibitors include e.g. A 83 01 3 6 Methylpyridin 2 yl 1 phenylthiocarbamoyl 4 quinolin 4 ylpyrazole Alk 5 inhibitor Masayoshi et al 2005 GW6604 2 phenyl 4 3 pyridin 2 yl 1H pyrazol 4 yl pyridine Alk 5 inhibitor Sawyer et al 2003 and SB 431542 4 5 benzo 1 3 dioxol 5 yl 4 pyridin 2 yl 1H imidazol 2 yl benzamide . Also suitable for use is a pyrimidine derivative as described in WO 2008 006583.

In some embodiments an agent that inhibits TGF signaling is an inhibitory or interfering nucleic acid. Interfering nucleic acids RNAi include nucleic acids that provide for decreased levels of a TGF pathway element in a cell e.g. a neuronal cell. Interfering nucleic acids include e.g. a short interfering nucleic acid siNA a short interfering RNA siRNA a double stranded RNA dsRNA a micro RNA miRNA and a short hairpin RNA shRNA molecule.

The term short interfering nucleic acid siNA short interfering RNA siRNA short interfering nucleic acid molecule short interfering oligonucleotide molecule or chemically modified short interfering nucleic acid molecule as used herein refers to any nucleic acid molecule capable of inhibiting or down regulating gene expression for example by mediating RNA interference RNAi or gene silencing in a sequence specific manner. Design of RNAi molecules when given a target gene is routine in the art. See also US 2005 0282188 which is incorporated herein by reference as well as references cited therein. See e.g. Pushparaj et al. Clin Exp Pharmacol Physiol. 2006 May June 33 5 6 504 10 Lutzelberger et al. Handb Exp Pharmacol. 2006 173 243 59 Aronin et al. Gene Ther. 2006 March 13 6 509 16 Xie et al. Drug Discov Today. 2006 January 11 1 2 67 73 Grunweller et al. Curr Med Chem. 2005 12 26 3143 61 and Pekaraik et al. Brain Res Bull. 2005 Dec. 15 68 1 2 115 20. Epub 2005 Sep. 9.

Methods for design and production of siRNAs to a desired target are known in the art and their application to TGF pathway element encoding nucleic acids will be readily apparent to the ordinarily skilled artisan as are methods of production of siRNAs having modifications e.g. chemical modifications to provide for e.g. enhanced stability bioavailability and other properties to enhance use as therapeutics. In addition methods for formulation and delivery of siRNAs to a subject are also well known in the art. See e.g. US 2005 0282188 US 2005 0239731 US 2005 0234232 US 2005 0176018 US 2005 0059817 US 2005 0020525 US 2004 0192626 US 2003 0073640 US 2002 0150936 US 2002 0142980 and US2002 0120129 each of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Publicly available tools to facilitate design of siRNAs are available in the art. See e.g. DEQOR Design and Quality Control of RNAi available on the internet at cluster Lmpi cbg.de Deqor deqor.html . See also Henschel et al. Nucleic Acids Res. 2004 Jul. 1 32 Web Server issue W113 20. DEQOR is a web based program which uses a scoring system based on state of the art parameters for siRNA design to evaluate the inhibitory potency of siRNAs. DEQOR therefore can help to predict i regions in a gene that show high silencing capacity based on the base pair composition and ii siRNAs with high silencing potential for chemical synthesis. In addition each siRNA arising from the input query is evaluated for possible cross silencing activities by performing BLAST searches against the transcriptome or genome of a selected organism. DEQOR can therefore predict the probability that an mRNA fragment will cross react with other genes in the cell and helps researchers to design experiments to test the specificity of siRNAs or chemically designed siRNAs.

siNA molecules can be of any of a variety of forms. For example the siNA can be a double stranded polynucleotide molecule comprising self complementary sense and antisense regions wherein the antisense region comprises nucleotide sequence that is complementary to nucleotide sequence in a target nucleic acid molecule or a portion thereof and the sense region having nucleotide sequence corresponding to the target nucleic acid sequence or a portion thereof. siNA can also be assembled from two separate oligonucleotides where one strand is the sense strand and the other is the antisense strand wherein the antisense and sense strands are self complementary. In this embodiment each strand generally comprises nucleotide sequence that is complementary to nucleotide sequence in the other strand such as where the antisense strand and sense strand form a duplex or double stranded structure for example wherein the double stranded region is about 15 base pairs to about 30 base pairs e.g. about 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 or 30 base pairs the antisense strand comprises nucleotide sequence that is complementary to nucleotide sequence in a target nucleic acid molecule or a portion thereof and the sense strand comprises nucleotide sequence corresponding to the target nucleic acid sequence or a portion thereof e.g. about 15 nucleotides to about 25 or more nucleotides of the siNA molecule are complementary to the target nucleic acid or a portion thereof .

Alternatively the siNA can be assembled from a single oligonucleotide where the self complementary sense and antisense regions of the siNA are linked by a nucleic acid based or non nucleic acid based linker s . The siNA can be a polynucleotide with a duplex asymmetric duplex hairpin or asymmetric hairpin secondary structure having self complementary sense and antisense regions wherein the antisense region comprises nucleotide sequence that is complementary to nucleotide sequence in a separate target nucleic acid molecule or a portion thereof and the sense region having nucleotide sequence corresponding to the target nucleic acid sequence or a portion thereof.

The siNA can be a circular single stranded polynucleotide having two or more loop structures and a stem comprising self complementary sense and antisense regions wherein the antisense region comprises nucleotide sequence that is complementary to nucleotide sequence in a target nucleic acid molecule or a portion thereof and the sense region having nucleotide sequence corresponding to the target nucleic acid sequence or a portion thereof and wherein the circular polynucleotide can be processed either in vivo or in vitro to generate an active siNA molecule capable of mediating RNAi. The siNA can also comprise a single stranded polynucleotide having nucleotide sequence complementary to nucleotide sequence in a target nucleic acid molecule or a portion thereof e.g. where such siNA molecule does not require the presence within the siNA molecule of nucleotide sequence corresponding to the target nucleic acid sequence or a portion thereof wherein the single stranded polynucleotide can further comprise a terminal phosphate group such as a 5 phosphate see for example Martinez et al. 2002 Cell. 110 563 574 and Schwarz et al. 2002 Molecular Cell 10 537 568 or 5 3 diphosphate.

In certain embodiments the siNA molecule contains separate sense and antisense sequences or regions wherein the sense and antisense regions are covalently linked by nucleotide or non nucleotide linkers molecules as is known in the art or are alternately non covalently linked by ionic interactions hydrogen bonding van der Waals interactions hydrophobic interactions and or stacking interactions. In certain embodiments the siNA molecules comprise nucleotide sequence that is complementary to nucleotide sequence of a target gene. In another embodiment the siNA molecule interacts with nucleotide sequence of a target gene in a manner that causes inhibition of expression of the target gene.

As used herein siNA molecules need not be limited to those molecules containing only RNA but further encompasses chemically modified nucleotides and non nucleotides. In certain embodiments the short interfering nucleic acid molecules of the invention lack 2 hydroxy 2 OH containing nucleotides. siNAs do not necessarily require the presence of nucleotides having a 2 hydroxy group for mediating RNAi and as such siNA molecules of the invention optionally do not include any ribonucleotides e.g. nucleotides having a 2 OH group . Such siNA molecules that do not require the presence of ribonucleotides within the siNA molecule to support RNAi can however have an attached linker or linkers or other attached or associated groups moieties or chains containing one or more nucleotides with 2 OH groups. Optionally siNA molecules can comprise ribonucleotides at about 5 10 20 30 40 or 50 of the nucleotide positions. The modified short interfering nucleic acid molecules of the invention can also be referred to as short interfering modified oligonucleotides siMON. 

As used herein the term siNA is meant to be equivalent to other terms used to describe nucleic acid molecules that are capable of mediating sequence specific RNAi for example short interfering RNA siRNA double stranded RNA dsRNA micro RNA miRNA short hairpin RNA shRNA short interfering oligonucleotide short interfering nucleic acid short interfering modified oligonucleotide chemically modified siRNA post transcriptional gene silencing RNA ptgsRNA and others. In addition as used herein the term RNAi is meant to be equivalent to other terms used to describe sequence specific RNA interference such as post transcriptional gene silencing translational inhibition or epigenetics. For example siNA molecules of the invention can be used to epigenetically silence a target gene at the post transcriptional level and or at the pre transcriptional level. In a non limiting example epigenetic regulation of gene expression by siNA molecules of the invention can result from siNA mediated modification of chromatin structure or methylation pattern to alter gene expression see for example Verdel et al. 2004 Science 303 672 676 Pal Bhadra et al. 2004 Science 303 669 672 Allshire 2002 Science 297 1818 1819 Volpe et al. 2002 Science 297 1833 1837 Jenuwein 2002 Science 297 2215 2218 and Hall et al. 2002 Science 297 2232 2237 .

siNA molecules contemplated herein can comprise a duplex forming oligonucleotide DFO see e.g. WO 05 019453 and US 2005 0233329 which are incorporated herein by reference . siNA molecules also contemplated herein include multifunctional siNA see e.g. WO 05 019453 and US 2004 0249178 . The multifunctional siNA can comprise sequence targeting for example two regions of Skp2.

siNA molecules contemplated herein can comprise an asymmetric hairpin or asymmetric duplex. By asymmetric hairpin as used herein is meant a linear siNA molecule comprising an antisense region a loop portion that can comprise nucleotides or non nucleotides and a sense region that comprises fewer nucleotides than the antisense region to the extent that the sense region has enough complementary nucleotides to base pair with the antisense region and form a duplex with loop. For example an asymmetric hairpin siNA molecule can comprise an antisense region having length sufficient to mediate RNAi in a cell or in vitro system e.g. about 15 to about 30 or about 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 or 30 nucleotides and a loop region comprising about 4 to about 12 e.g. about 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 or 12 nucleotides and a sense region having about 3 to about 25 e.g. about 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 or 25 nucleotides that are complementary to the antisense region. The asymmetric hairpin siNA molecule can also comprise a 5 terminal phosphate group that can be chemically modified. The loop portion of the asymmetric hairpin siNA molecule can comprise nucleotides non nucleotides linker molecules or conjugate molecules as described herein.

By asymmetric duplex as used herein is meant a siNA molecule having two separate strands comprising a sense region and an antisense region wherein the sense region comprises fewer nucleotides than the antisense region to the extent that the sense region has enough complementary nucleotides to base pair with the antisense region and form a duplex. For example an asymmetric duplex siNA molecule of the invention can comprise an antisense region having length sufficient to mediate RNAi in a cell or in vitro system e.g. about 15 to about 30 or about 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 or 30 nucleotides and a sense region having about 3 to about 25 e.g. about 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 or 25 nucleotides that are complementary to the antisense region.

Stability and or half life of siRNAs can be improved through chemically synthesizing nucleic acid molecules with modifications base sugar and or phosphate can prevent their degradation by serum ribonucleases which can increase their potency see e.g. Eckstein et al. International Publication No. WO 92 07065 Perrault et al. 1990 Nature 344 565 Pieken et al. 1991 Science 253 314 Usman and Cedergren 1992 Trends in Biochem. Sci. 17 334 Usman et al. International Publication No. WO 93 15187 and Rossi et al. International Publication No. WO 91 03162 Sproat U.S. Pat. No. 5 334 711 Gold et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 300 074 and Burgin et al. supra all of which are incorporated by reference herein describing various chemical modifications that can be made to the base phosphate and or sugar moieties of the nucleic acid molecules described herein. Modifications that enhance their efficacy in cells and removal of bases from nucleic acid molecules to shorten oligonucleotide synthesis times and reduce chemical requirements are desired.

For example oligonucleotides are modified to enhance stability and or enhance biological activity by modification with nuclease resistant groups for example 2 amino 2 C allyl 2 fluoro 2 O methyl 2 O allyl 2 H nucleotide base modifications for a review see Usman and Cedergren 1992 TIBS. 17 34 Usman et al. 1994 Nucleic Acids Symp. Ser. 31 163 Burgin et al. 1996 Biochemistry 35 14090 . Sugar modification of nucleic acid molecules have been extensively described in the art see Eckstein et al. International Publication PCT No. WO 92 07065 Perrault et al. Nature 1990 344 565 568 Pieken et al. Science 1991 253 314 317 Usman and Cedergren Trends in Biochem. Sci. 1992 17 334 339 Usman et al. International Publication PCT No. WO 93 15187 Sproat U.S. Pat. No. 5 334 711 and Beigelman et al. 1995 J. Biol. Chem. 270 25702 Beigelman et al. International PCT publication No. WO 97 26270 Beigelman et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 716 824 Usman et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 627 053 Woolf et al. International PCT Publication No. WO 98 13526 Thompson et al. U.S. Ser. No. 60 082 404 which was filed on Apr. 20 1998 Karpeisky et al. 1998 Tetrahedron Lett. 39 1131 Eamshaw and Gait 1998 Biopolymers Nucleic Acid Sciences 48 39 55 Verma and Eckstein 1998 Annu. Rev. Biochem. 67 99 134 and Burlina et al. 1997 Bioorg. Med. Chem. 5 1999 2010 each of which are hereby incorporated in their totality by reference herein . In view of such teachings similar modifications can be used as described herein to modify the siNA nucleic acid molecules of disclosed herein so long as the ability of siNA to promote RNAi is cells is not significantly inhibited.

Short interfering nucleic acid siNA molecules having chemical modifications that maintain or enhance activity are contemplated herein. Such a nucleic acid is also generally more resistant to nucleases than an unmodified nucleic acid. Accordingly the in vitro and or in vivo activity should not be significantly lowered. Nucleic acid molecules delivered exogenously are generally selected to be stable within cells at least for a period sufficient for transcription and or translation of the target RNA to occur and to provide for modulation of production of the encoded mRNA and or polypeptide so as to facilitate reduction of the level of the target gene product.

Production of RNA and DNA molecules can be accomplished synthetically and can provide for introduction of nucleotide modifications to provide for enhanced nuclease stability. see e.g. Wincott et al. 1995 Nucleic Acids Res. 23 2677 Caruthers et al. 1992 Methods in Enzymology 211 3 19 incorporated by reference herein. In one embodiment nucleic acid molecules of the invention include one or more e.g. about 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 or more G clamp nucleotides which are modified cytosine analogs which confer the ability to hydrogen bond both Watson Crick and Hoogsteen faces of a complementary guanine within a duplex and can provide for enhanced affinity and specificity to nucleic acid targets see e.g. Lin et al. 1998 J. Am. Chem. Soc. 120 8531 8532 . In another example nucleic acid molecules can include one or more e.g. about 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 or more LNA locked nucleic acid nucleotides such as a 2 4 C methylene bicyclo nucleotide see e.g. Wengel et al. WO 00 66604 and WO 99 14226 .

siNA molecules can be provided as conjugates and or complexes e.g. to facilitate delivery of siNA molecules into a cell. Exemplary conjugates and or complexes include those composed of an siNA and a small molecule lipid cholesterol phospholipid nucleoside antibody toxin negatively charged polymer e.g. protein peptide hormone carbohydrate polyethylene glycol or polyamine . In general the transporters described are designed to be used either individually or as part of a multi component system with or without degradable linkers. These compounds can improve delivery and or localization of nucleic acid molecules into cells in the presence or absence of serum see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 854 038 . Conjugates of the molecules described herein can be attached to biologically active molecules via linkers that are biodegradable such as biodegradable nucleic acid linker molecules.

In some embodiments an individual who is being considered for treatment with a subject method is first assessed for blood brain barrier BBB disruption. Where the individual is determined to have BBB disruption the individual is treated with an effective amount of an agent that inhibits a TGF pathway. Methods of determining whether an individual has BBB disruption are known in the art.

An agent that blocks a TGF pathway can be provided together with a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. Pharmaceutically acceptable excipients are known to those skilled in the art and have been amply described in a variety of publications including for example A. Gennaro 1995 Remington The Science and Practice of Pharmacy 19th edition Lippincott Williams Wilkins

An agent that blocks a TGF pathway is also referred to herein as an active agent agent or drug. In the subject methods the active agent s may be administered to the host using any convenient means capable of resulting in the desired reduction in disease symptoms.

An active agent can be incorporated into a variety of formulations for therapeutic administration. More particularly an active agent can be formulated into pharmaceutical compositions by combination with appropriate pharmaceutically acceptable carriers or diluents and may be formulated into preparations in solid semi solid liquid or gaseous forms such as tablets capsules powders granules ointments solutions suppositories injections inhalants and aerosols.

In pharmaceutical dosage forms an active agent may be administered in the form of their pharmaceutically acceptable salts or they may also be used alone or in appropriate association as well as in combination with other pharmaceutically active compounds. The following methods and excipients are merely exemplary and are in no way limiting.

For oral preparations the agents can be used alone or in combination with appropriate additives to make tablets powders granules or capsules for example with conventional additives such as lactose mannitol corn starch or potato starch with binders such as crystalline cellulose cellulose derivatives acacia corn starch or gelatins with disintegrators such as corn starch potato starch or sodium carboxymethylcellulose with lubricants such as talc or magnesium stearate and if desired with diluents buffering agents moistening agents preservatives and flavoring agents.

The agents can be formulated into preparations for injection by dissolving suspending or emulsifying them in an aqueous or nonaqueous solvent such as vegetable or other similar oils synthetic aliphatic acid glycerides esters of higher aliphatic acids or propylene glycol and if desired with conventional additives such as solubilizers isotonic agents suspending agents emulsifying agents stabilizers and preservatives.

The agents can be utilized in aerosol formulation to be administered via inhalation. The compounds of the present invention can be formulated into pressurized acceptable propellants such as dichlorodifluoromethane propane nitrogen and the like.

Furthermore the agents can be made into suppositories by mixing with a variety of bases such as emulsifying bases or water soluble bases. An active agent can be administered rectally via a suppository. The suppository can include vehicles such as cocoa butter carbowaxes and polyethylene glycols which melt at body temperature yet are solidified at room temperature.

Unit dosage forms for oral or rectal administration such as syrups elixirs and suspensions may be provided wherein each dosage unit for example teaspoonful tablespoonful tablet or suppository contains a predetermined amount of the composition containing one or more active agents. Similarly unit dosage forms for injection or intravenous administration may comprise the agent s in a composition as a solution in sterile water normal saline or another pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

The term unit dosage form as used herein refers to physically discrete units suitable as unitary dosages for human and animal subjects each unit containing a predetermined quantity of an active agent calculated in an amount sufficient to produce the desired effect in association with a pharmaceutically acceptable diluent carrier or vehicle. The specifications for the active agents depend on the particular compound employed and the effect to be achieved and the pharmacodynamics associated with each compound in the host.

Other modes of administration will also find use with the subject invention. For instance an active agent can be formulated in suppositories and in some cases aerosol and intranasal compositions. For suppositories the vehicle composition will include traditional binders and carriers such as polyalkylene glycols or triglycerides. Such suppositories may be formed from mixtures containing the active ingredient in the range of about 0.5 to about 10 w w or about 1 to about 2 .

Intranasal formulations will usually include vehicles that neither cause irritation to the nasal mucosa nor significantly disturb ciliary function. Diluents such as water aqueous saline or other known substances can be employed with the subject invention. The nasal formulations may also contain preservatives such as but not limited to chlorobutanol and benzalkonium chloride. A surfactant may be present to enhance absorption of the subject proteins by the nasal mucosa.

An active agent can be administered as injectables. Typically injectable compositions are prepared as liquid solutions or suspensions solid forms suitable for solution in or suspension in liquid vehicles prior to injection may also be prepared. The preparation may also be emulsified or the active ingredient encapsulated in liposome vehicles.

Suitable excipient vehicles are for example water saline dextrose glycerol ethanol or the like and combinations thereof. In addition if desired the vehicle may contain minor amounts of auxiliary substances such as wetting or emulsifying agents or pH buffering agents. Actual methods of preparing such dosage forms are known or will be apparent to those skilled in the art. See e.g. Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences Mack Publishing Company Easton Pa. 17th edition 1985 Remington The Science and Practice of Pharmacy A. R. Gennaro 2000 Lippincott Williams Wilkins. The composition or formulation to be administered will in any event contain a quantity of the agent adequate to achieve the desired state in the subject being treated.

The pharmaceutically acceptable excipients such as vehicles adjuvants carriers or diluents are readily available to the public. Moreover pharmaceutically acceptable auxiliary substances such as pH adjusting and buffering agents tonicity adjusting agents stabilizers wetting agents and the like are readily available to the public.

In some embodiments an active agent is formulated for oral delivery to an individual in need of such an agent.

For oral delivery a subject formulation comprising an active agent will in some embodiments include an enteric soluble coating material. Suitable enteric soluble coating material include hydroxypropyl methylcellulose acetate succinate HPMCAS hydroxypropyl methyl cellulose phthalate HPMCP cellulose acetate phthalate CAP polyvinyl phthalic acetate PVPA Eudragit and shellac.

As one non limiting example of a suitable oral formulation an active agent is formulated with one or more pharmaceutical excipients and coated with an enteric coating as described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 346 269. For example a solution comprising an active agent and a stabilizer is coated onto a core comprising pharmaceutically acceptable excipients to form an active agent coated core a sub coating layer is applied to the active agent coated core which is then coated with an enteric coating layer. The core generally includes pharmaceutically inactive components such as lactose a starch mannitol sodium carboxymethyl cellulose sodium starch glycolate sodium chloride potassium chloride pigments salts of alginic acid talc titanium dioxide stearic acid stearate micro crystalline cellulose glycerin polyethylene glycol triethyl citrate tributyl citrate propanyl triacetate dibasic calcium phosphate tribasic sodium phosphate calcium sulfate cyclodextrin and castor oil. Suitable solvents for the active agent include aqueous solvents. Suitable stabilizers include alkali metals and alkaline earth metals bases of phosphates and organic acid salts and organic amines. The sub coating layer comprises one or more of an adhesive a plasticizer and an anti tackiness agent. Suitable anti tackiness agents include talc stearic acid stearate sodium stearyl fumarate glyceryl behenate kaolin and aerosil. Suitable adhesives include polyvinyl pyrrolidone PVP gelatin hydroxyethyl cellulose HEC hydroxypropyl cellulose HPC hydroxypropyl methyl cellulose HPMC vinyl acetate VA polyvinyl alcohol PVA methyl cellulose MC ethyl cellulose EC hydroxypropyl methyl cellulose phthalate HPMCP cellulose acetate phthalates CAP xanthan gum alginic acid salts of alginic acid Eudragit copolymer of methyl acrylic acid methyl methacrylate with polyvinyl acetate phthalate PVAP . Suitable plasticizers include glycerin polyethylene glycol triethyl citrate tributyl citrate propanyl triacetate and castor oil. Suitable enteric soluble coating material include hydroxypropyl methylcellulose acetate succinate HPMCAS hydroxypropyl methyl cellulose phthalate HPMCP cellulose acetate phthalate CAP polyvinyl phthalic acetate PVPA Eudragit and shellac.

Suitable oral formulations also include an active agent formulated with any of the following microgranules see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 6 458 398 biodegradable macromers see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 6 703 037 biodegradable hydrogels see e.g. Graham and McNeill 1989 5 27 36 biodegradable particulate vectors see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 736 371 bioabsorbable lactone polymers see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 631 015 slow release protein polymers see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 6 699 504 Pelias Technologies Inc. a poly lactide co glycolide polyethylene glycol block copolymer see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 6 630 155 Atrix Laboratories Inc. a composition comprising a biocompatible polymer and particles of metal cation stabilized agent dispersed within the polymer see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 6 379 701 Alkermes Controlled Therapeutics Inc. and microspheres see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 6 303 148 Octoplus B.V. .

Suitable oral formulations also include an active agent formulated with any of the following a carrier such as Emisphere Emisphere Technologies Inc. TIMERx a hydrophilic matrix combining xanthan and locust bean gums which in the presence of dextrose form a strong binder gel in water Penwest Geminex Penwest Procise GlaxoSmithKline SAVIT Mistral Pharma Inc. RingCap Alza Corp. Smartrix Smartrix Technologies Inc. SQZgel MacroMed Inc. Geomatrix Skye Pharma Inc. Oros Tri layer Alza Corporation and the like.

Also suitable for use are formulations such as those described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 296 842 Alkermes Controlled Therapeutics Inc. U.S. Pat. No. 6 187 330 Scios Inc. and the like.

Also suitable for use herein are formulations comprising an intestinal absorption enhancing agent. Suitable intestinal absorption enhancers include but are not limited to calcium chelators e.g. citrate ethylenediamine tetracetic acid surfactants e.g. sodium dodecyl sulfate bile salts palmitoylcarnitine and sodium salts of fatty acids toxins e.g. zonula occludens toxin and the like.

Controlled release within the scope of this invention can be taken to mean any one of a number of extended release dosage forms. The following terms may be considered to be substantially equivalent to controlled release for the purposes of the present invention continuous release controlled release delayed release depot gradual release long term release programmed release prolonged release proportionate release protracted release repository retard slow release spaced release sustained release time coat timed release delayed action extended action layered time action long acting prolonged action repeated action slowing acting sustained action sustained action medications and extended release. Further discussions of these terms may be found in Lesczek Krowczynski 1987 CRC Press Inc. .

The various controlled release technologies cover a very broad spectrum of drug dosage forms. Controlled release technologies include but are not limited to physical systems and chemical systems.

Physical systems include but are not limited to reservoir systems with rate controlling membranes such as microencapsulation macroencapsulation and membrane systems reservoir systems without rate controlling membranes such as hollow fibers ultra microporous cellulose triacetate and porous polymeric substrates and foams monolithic systems including those systems physically dissolved in non porous polymeric or elastomeric matrices e.g. nonerodible erodible environmental agent ingression and degradable and materials physically dispersed in non porous polymeric or elastomeric matrices e.g. nonerodible erodible environmental agent ingression and degradable laminated structures including reservoir layers chemically similar or dissimilar to outer control layers and other physical methods such as osmotic pumps or adsorption onto ion exchange resins.

Chemical systems include but are not limited to chemical erosion of polymer matrices e.g. heterogeneous or homogeneous erosion or biological erosion of a polymer matrix e.g. heterogeneous or homogeneous . Additional discussion of categories of systems for controlled release may be found in Agis F. Kydonieus Controlled Release Technologies Methods Theory and Applications 1980 CRC Press Inc. .

There are a number of controlled release drug formulations that are developed for oral administration. These include but are not limited to osmotic pressure controlled gastrointestinal delivery systems hydrodynamic pressure controlled gastrointestinal delivery systems membrane permeation controlled gastrointestinal delivery systems which include microporous membrane permeation controlled gastrointestinal delivery devices gastric fluid resistant intestine targeted controlled release gastrointestinal delivery devices gel diffusion controlled gastrointestinal delivery systems and ion exchange controlled gastrointestinal delivery systems which include cationic and anionic drugs. Additional information regarding controlled release drug delivery systems may be found in Yie W. Chien Novel Drug Delivery Systems 1992 Marcel Dekker Inc. . Some of these formulations will now be discussed in more detail.

Enteric coatings are applied to tablets to prevent the release of drugs in the stomach either to reduce the risk of unpleasant side effects or to maintain the stability of the drug which might otherwise be subject to degradation of expose to the gastric environment. Most polymers that are used for this purpose are polyacids that function by virtue or the fact that their solubility in aqueous medium is pH dependent and they require conditions with a pH higher than normally encountered in the stomach.

One exemplary type of oral controlled release structure is enteric coating of a solid or liquid dosage form. The enteric coatings are designed to disintegrate in intestinal fluid for ready absorption. Delay of absorption of the active agent that is incorporated into a formulation with an enteric coating is dependent on the rate of transfer through the gastrointestinal tract and so the rate of gastric emptying is an important factor. Some investigators have reported that a multiple unit type dosage form such as granules may be superior to a single unit type. Therefore in one exemplary embodiment an active agent is contained in an enterically coated multiple unit dosage form. In an exemplary embodiment an active agent dosage form is prepared by spray coating granules of an active agent enteric coating agent solid dispersion on an inert core material. These granules can result in prolonged absorption of the drug with good bioavailability.

Suitable enteric coating agents include but are not limited to hydroxypropylmethylcellulose phthalate methacryclic acid methacrylic acid ester copolymer polyvinyl acetate phthalate and cellulose acetate phthalate Akihiko Hasegawa Application of solid dispersions of Nifedipine with enteric coating agent to prepare a sustained release dosage form Chem. Pharm. Bull. 33 1615 1619 1985 . Various enteric coating materials may be selected on the basis of testing to achieve an enteric coated dosage form designed ab initio to have an optimal combination of dissolution time coating thicknesses and diametral crushing strength. S. C. Porter et al. The Properties of Enteric Tablet Coatings Made From Polyvinyl Acetate phthalate and Cellulose acetate Phthalate J. Pharm. Pharmacol. 22 42 p 1970 .

Another type of useful oral controlled release structure is a solid dispersion. A solid dispersion may be defined as a dispersion of one or more active ingredients in an inert carrier or matrix in the solid state prepared by the melting fusion solvent or melting solvent method Akihiko Hasegawa Super Saturation Mechanism of Drugs from Solid Dispersions with Enteric Coating Agents Chem. Pharm. Bull. 36 4941 4950 1998 . The solid dispersions may be also called solid state dispersions. The term coprecipitates may also be used to refer to those preparations obtained by the solvent methods.

The selection of the carrier may have an influence on the dissolution characteristics of the dispersed drug e.g. active agent because the dissolution rate of a component from a surface may be affected by other components in a multiple component mixture. For example a water soluble carrier may result in a fast release of the drug from the matrix or a poorly soluble or insoluble carrier may lead to a slower release of the drug from the matrix. The solubility of the active agent may also be increased owing to some interaction with the carriers.

Examples of carriers useful in solid dispersions include but are not limited to water soluble polymers such as polyethylene glycol polyvinylpyraolidone and hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose. Alternative carriers include phosphatidylcholine. Phosphatidylcholine is an amphoteric but water insoluble lipid which may improve the solubility of otherwise insoluble active agents in an amorphous state in phosphatidylcholine solid dispersions.

Other carriers include polyoxyethylene hydrogenated castor oil. Poorly water soluble active agents may be included in a solid dispersion system with an enteric polymer such as hydroxypropylmethylcellulose phthalate and carboxymethylethylcellulose and a non enteric polymer hydroxypropylmethylcellulose. Another solid dispersion dosage form includes incorporation of the drug of interest e.g. an active agent with ethyl cellulose and stearic acid in different ratios.

There are various methods commonly known for preparing solid dispersions. These include but are not limited to the melting method the solvent method and the melting solvent method.

Another controlled release dosage form is a complex between an ion exchange resin and an active agent. Ion exchange resin drug complexes have been used to formulate sustained release products of acidic and basic drugs. In one exemplary embodiment a polymeric film coating is provided to the ion exchange resin drug complex particles making drug release from these particles diffusion controlled. See Y. Raghunathan et al. J. Pharm. Sciences 70 379 384 1981 .

Injectable microspheres are another controlled release dosage form. Injectable micro spheres may be prepared by non aqueous phase separation techniques and spray drying techniques. Microspheres may be prepared using polylactic acid or copoly lactic glycolic acid . Shigeyuki Takada Pharm. Res. 14 1146 1150 1997 and ethyl cellulose Yoshiyuki Koida Chem. Pharm. Bull. 35 1538 1545 1987 .

Other controlled release technologies that may be used include but are not limited to SODAS Spheroidal Oral Drug Absorption System INDAS Insoluble Drug Absorption System IPDAS Intestinal Protective Drug Absorption System MODAS Multiporous Oral Drug Absorption System EFVAS Effervescent Drug Absorption System PRODAS Programmable Oral Drug Absorption System and DUREDAS Dual Release Drug Absorption System available from Elan Pharmaceutical Technologies. SODAS are multi particulate dosage forms utilizing controlled release beads. INDAS are a family of drug delivery technologies designed to increase the solubility of poorly soluble drugs. IPDAS are multi particulate tablet formation utilizing a combination of high density controlled release beads and an immediate release granulate. MODAS are controlled release single unit dosage forms. Each tablet consists of an inner core surrounded by a semipermeable multiparous membrane that controls the rate of drug release. EFVAS is an effervescent drug absorption system. PRODAS is a family of multi particulate formulations utilizing combinations of immediate release and controlled release mini tablets. DUREDAS is a bilayer tablet formulation providing dual release rates within the one dosage form. Although these dosage forms are known to one of skill certain of these dosage forms will now be discussed in more detail.

INDAS was developed specifically to improve the solubility and absorption characteristics of poorly water soluble drugs. Solubility and in particular dissolution within the fluids of the gastrointestinal tract is a key factor in determining the overall oral bioavailability of poorly water soluble drug. By enhancing solubility one can increase the overall bioavailability of a drug with resulting reductions in dosage. INDAS takes the form of a high energy matrix tablet production of which is comprised of two distinct steps the drug in question is converted to an amorphous form through a combination of energy excipients and unique processing procedures.

Once converted to the desirable physical form the resultant high energy complex may be stabilized by an absorption process that utilizes a novel polymer cross linked technology to prevent recrystallization. The combination of the change in the physical state of the active agent coupled with the solubilizing characteristics of the excipients employed enhances the solubility of the active agent. The resulting absorbed amorphous drug complex granulate may be formulated with a gel forming erodible tablet system to promote substantially smooth and continuous absorption.

IPDAS is a multi particulate tablet technology that may enhance the gastrointestinal tolerability of potential irritant and ulcerogenic drugs. Intestinal protection is facilitated by the multi particulate nature of the IPDAS formulation which promotes dispersion of an irritant lipoate throughout the gastrointestinal tract. Controlled release characteristics of the individual beads may avoid high concentration of drug being both released locally and absorbed systemically. The combination of both approaches serves to minimize the potential harm of an active agent with resultant benefits to patients.

IPDAS is composed of numerous high density controlled release beads. Each bead may be manufactured by a two step process that involves the initial production of a micromatrix with embedded active agent and the subsequent coating of this micromatrix with polymer solutions that form a rate limiting semipermeable membrane in vivo. Once an IPDAS tablet is ingested it may disintegrate and liberate the beads in the stomach. These beads may subsequently pass into the duodenum and along the gastrointestinal tract e.g. in a controlled and gradual manner independent of the feeding state. Release of the active agent occurs by diffusion process through the micromatrix and subsequently through the pores in the rate controlling semipermeable membrane. The release rate from the IPDAS tablet may be customized to deliver a drug specific absorption profile associated with optimized clinical benefit. Should a fast onset of activity be necessary immediate release granulate may be included in the tablet. The tablet may be broken prior to administration without substantially compromising drug release if a reduced dose is required for individual titration.

MODAS is a drug delivery system that may be used to control the absorption of water soluble agents. Physically MODAS is a non disintegrating table formulation that manipulates drug release by a process of rate limiting diffusion by a semipermeable membrane formed in vivo. The diffusion process essentially dictates the rate of presentation of drug to the gastrointestinal fluids such that the uptake into the body is controlled. Because of the minimal use of excipients MODAS can readily accommodate small dosage size forms. Each MODAS tablet begins as a core containing active drug plus excipients. This core is coated with a solution of insoluble polymers and soluble excipients. Once the tablet is ingested the fluid of the gastrointestinal tract may dissolve the soluble excipients in the outer coating leaving substantially the insoluble polymer. What results is a network of tiny narrow channels connecting fluid from the gastrointestinal tract to the inner drug core of water soluble drug. This fluid passes through these channels into the core dissolving the drug and the resultant solution of drug may diffuse out in a controlled manner. This may permit both controlled dissolution and absorption. An advantage of this system is that the drug releasing pores of the tablet are distributed over substantially the entire surface of the tablet. This facilitates uniform drug absorption reduces aggressive unidirectional drug delivery. MODAS represents a very flexible dosage form in that both the inner core and the outer semipermeable membrane may be altered to suit the individual delivery requirements of a drug. In particular the addition of excipients to the inner core may help to produce a microenvironment within the tablet that facilitates more predictable release and absorption rates. The addition of an immediate release outer coating may allow for development of combination products.

Additionally PRODAS may be used to deliver an active agent. PRODAS is a multi particulate drug delivery technology based on the production of controlled release mini tablets in the size range of 1.5 to 4 mm in diameter. The PRODAS technology is a hybrid of multi particulate and hydrophilic matrix tablet approaches and may incorporate in one dosage form the benefits of both these drug delivery systems.

In its most basic form PRODAS involves the direct compression of an immediate release granulate to produce individual mini tablets that contain an active agent. These mini tablets are subsequently incorporated into hard gels and capsules that represent the final dosage form. A more beneficial use of this technology is in the production of controlled release formulations. In this case the incorporation of various polymer combinations within the granulate may delay the release rate of drugs from each of the individual mini tablets. These mini tablets may subsequently be coated with controlled release polymer solutions to provide additional delayed release properties. The additional coating may be necessary in the case of highly water soluble drugs or drugs that are perhaps gastroirritants where release can be delayed until the formulation reaches more distal regions of the gastrointestinal tract. One value of PRODAS technology lies in the inherent flexibility to formulation whereby combinations of mini tablets each with different release rates are incorporated into one dosage form. As well as potentially permitting controlled absorption over a specific period this also may permit targeted delivery of drug to specific sites of absorption throughout the gastrointestinal tract. Combination products also may be possible using mini tablets formulated with different active ingredients.

DUREDAS is a bilayer tableting technology that may be used to formulate an active agent. DUREDAS was developed to provide for two different release rates or dual release of a drug from one dosage form. The term bilayer refers to two separate direct compression events that take place during the tableting process. In an exemplary embodiment an immediate release granulate is first compressed being followed by the addition of a controlled release element which is then compressed onto this initial tablet. This may give rise to the characteristic bilayer seen in the final dosage form.

The controlled release properties may be provided by a combination of hydrophilic polymers. In certain cases a rapid release of an active agent may be desirable in order to facilitate a fast onset of therapeutic affect. Hence one layer of the tablet may be formulated as an immediate release granulate. By contrast the second layer of the tablet may release the drug in a controlled manner e.g. through the use of hydrophilic polymers. This controlled release may result from a combination of diffusion and erosion through the hydrophilic polymer matrix.

A further extension of DUREDAS technology is the production of controlled release combination dosage forms. In this instance two different active agents may be incorporated into the bilayer tablet and the release of drug from each layer controlled to maximize therapeutic affect of the combination.

An active agent can be incorporated into any one of the aforementioned controlled released dosage forms or other conventional dosage forms. The amount of active agent contained in each dose can be adjusted to meet the needs of the individual patient and the indication. One of skill in the art and reading this disclosure will readily recognize how to adjust the level of an active agent and the release rates in a controlled release formulation in order to optimize delivery of an active agent and its bioavailability.

An active agent will in some embodiments be administered to a patient by means of a pharmaceutical delivery system for the inhalation route. The active agent may be formulated in a form suitable for administration by inhalation. The inhalational route of administration provides the advantage that the inhaled drug can bypass the blood brain barrier. The pharmaceutical delivery system is one that is suitable for respiratory therapy by delivery of an active agent to mucosal linings of the bronchi. This invention can utilize a system that depends on the power of a compressed gas to expel the active agent from a container. An aerosol or pressurized package can be employed for this purpose.

As used herein the term aerosol is used in its conventional sense as referring to very fine liquid or solid particles carries by a propellant gas under pressure to a site of therapeutic application. When a pharmaceutical aerosol is employed in this invention the aerosol contains the therapeutically active compound e.g. active agent which can be dissolved suspended or emulsified in a mixture of a fluid carrier and a propellant. The aerosol can be in the form of a solution suspension emulsion powder or semi solid preparation. Aerosols employed in the present invention are intended for administration as fine solid particles or as liquid mists via the respiratory tract of a patient. Various types of propellants known to one of skill in the art can be utilized. Suitable propellants include but are not limited to hydrocarbons or other suitable gas. In the case of the pressurized aerosol the dosage unit may be determined by providing a value to deliver a metered amount.

An active agent can also be formulated for delivery with a nebulizer which is an instrument that generates very fine liquid particles of substantially uniform size in a gas. For example a liquid containing the active agent is dispersed as droplets. The small droplets can be carried by a current of air through an outlet tube of the nebulizer. The resulting mist penetrates into the respiratory tract of the patient.

A powder composition containing an active agent with or without a lubricant carrier or propellant can be administered to a mammal in need of therapy. This embodiment of the invention can be carried out with a conventional device for administering a powder pharmaceutical composition by inhalation. For example a powder mixture of the compound and a suitable powder base such as lactose or starch may be presented in unit dosage form in for example capsular or cartridges e.g. gelatin or blister packs from which the powder may be administered with the aid of an inhaler.

There are several different types of inhalation methodologies which can be employed in connection with the present invention. An active agent can be formulated in basically three different types of formulations for inhalation. First an active agent can be formulated with low boiling point propellants. Such formulations are generally administered by conventional meter dose inhalers MDI s . However conventional MDI s can be modified so as to increase the ability to obtain repeatable dosing by utilizing technology which measures the inspiratory volume and flow rate of the patient as discussed within U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 404 871 and 5 542 410.

Alternatively an active agent can be formulated in aqueous or ethanolic solutions and delivered by conventional nebulizers. In some embodiments such solution formulations are aerosolized using devices and systems such as disclosed within U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 497 763 5 544 646 5 718 222 and 5 660 166.

An active agent can be formulated into dry powder formulations. Such formulations can be administered by simply inhaling the dry powder formulation after creating an aerosol mist of the powder. Technology for carrying such out is described within U.S. Pat. No. 5 775 320 and U.S. Pat. No. 5 740 794.

Although the dosage used will vary depending on the clinical goals to be achieved a suitable dosage range is one which provides up to about 1 g to about 1 000 g or about 10 000 g of an agent that blocks a TGF pathway can be administered in a single dose. For example a single dose of an active agent can include from about 1 g to about 10 g from about 10 g to about 25 g from about 25 g to about 50 g from about 50 g to about 100 g from about 100 g to about 500 g from about 500 g to about 1 mg from about 1 mg to about 5 mg or from about 5 mg to about 10 mg of active agent in a single dose. Alternatively a target dosage of agent that blocks a TGF pathway can be considered to be about in the range of about 0.1 1000 M about 0.5 500 M about 1 100 M or about 5 50 M in a sample of host blood drawn within the first 24 48 hours after administration of the agent.

Those of skill will readily appreciate that dose levels can vary as a function of the specific compound the severity of the symptoms and the susceptibility of the subject to side effects. Preferred dosages for a given compound are readily determinable by those of skill in the art by a variety of means.

In some embodiments multiple doses of an active agent are administered. The frequency of administration of an active agent can vary depending on any of a variety of factors e.g. severity of the symptoms etc. For example in some embodiments an active agent is administered once per month twice per month three times per month every other week qow once per week qw twice per week biw three times per week tiw four times per week five times per week six times per week every other day qod daily qd twice a day qid or three times a day tid . In some embodiments an active agent is administered continuously.

The duration of administration of an active agent e.g. the period of time over which an active agent is administered can vary depending on any of a variety of factors e.g. patient response etc. For example an active agent can be administered over a period of time ranging from about one day to about one week from about two weeks to about four weeks from about one month to about two months from about two months to about four months from about four months to about six months from about six months to about eight months from about eight months to about 1 year from about 1 year to about 2 years or from about 2 years to about 4 years or more. In some embodiments an agent that blocks a TGF pathway is administered for the lifetime of the individual.

In some embodiments administration of an active agent is discontinuous e.g. an active agent is administered for a first period of time and at a first dosing frequency administration of the active agent is suspended for a period of time then the active agent is administered for a second period of time for a second dosing frequency. The period of time during which administration of the active agent is suspended can vary depending on various factors e.g. cognitive functions of the individual and will generally range from about 1 week to about 6 months e.g. from about 1 week to about 2 weeks from about 2 weeks to about 4 weeks from about one month to about 2 months from about 2 months to about 4 months or from about 4 months to about 6 months or longer. The first period of time may be the same or different than the second period of time and the first dosing frequency may be the same or different than the second dosing frequency.

An agent that blocks a TGF pathway is administered to an individual using any available method and route suitable for drug delivery including in vivo and ex vivo methods as well as systemic and localized routes of administration.

Conventional and pharmaceutically acceptable routes of administration include intranasal intramuscular intratracheal subcutaneous intradermal topical application intravenous rectal nasal oral and other parenteral routes of administration. Routes of administration may be combined if desired or adjusted depending upon the agent and or the desired effect. The composition can be administered in a single dose or in multiple doses.

The agent can be administered to a host using any available conventional methods and routes suitable for delivery of conventional drugs including systemic or localized routes. In general routes of administration contemplated by the invention include but are not necessarily limited to enteral parenteral or inhalational routes.

Parenteral routes of administration other than inhalation administration include but are not necessarily limited to topical transdermal subcutaneous intramuscular intraorbital intracapsular intraspinal intrasternal intracranial and intravenous routes i.e. any route of administration other than through the alimentary canal. Parenteral administration can be carried to effect systemic or local delivery of the agent. Where systemic delivery is desired administration typically involves invasive or systemically absorbed topical or mucosal administration of pharmaceutical preparations.

The agent can also be delivered to the subject by enteral administration. Enteral routes of administration include but are not necessarily limited to oral and rectal e.g. using a suppository delivery.

Methods of administration of the agent through the skin or mucosa include but are not necessarily limited to topical application of a suitable pharmaceutical preparation transdermal transmission injection and epidermal administration. For transdermal transmission absorption promoters or iontophoresis are suitable methods. Iontophoretic transmission may be accomplished using commercially available patches which deliver their product continuously via electric pulses through unbroken skin for periods of several days or more.

In some embodiments an active agent is delivered by a continuous delivery system. The term continuous delivery system is used interchangeably herein with controlled delivery system and encompasses continuous e.g. controlled delivery devices e.g. pumps in combination with catheters injection devices and the like a wide variety of which are known in the art.

Mechanical or electromechanical infusion pumps can also be suitable for use with the present invention. Examples of such devices include those described in for example U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 692 147 4 360 019 4 487 603 4 360 019 4 725 852 5 820 589 5 643 207 6 198 966 and the like. In general delivery of active agent can be accomplished using any of a variety of refillable pump systems. Pumps provide consistent controlled release over time. In some embodiments the agent is in a liquid formulation in a drug impermeable reservoir and is delivered in a continuous fashion to the individual.

In one embodiment the drug delivery system is an at least partially implantable device. The implantable device can be implanted at any suitable implantation site using methods and devices well known in the art. An implantation site is a site within the body of a subject at which a drug delivery device is introduced and positioned. Implantation sites include but are not necessarily limited to a subdermal subcutaneous intramuscular or other suitable site within a subject s body. Subcutaneous implantation sites are used in some embodiments because of convenience in implantation and removal of the drug delivery device.

Drug release devices suitable for use in the invention may be based on any of a variety of modes of operation. For example the drug release device can be based upon a diffusive system a convective system or an erodible system e.g. an erosion based system . For example the drug release device can be an electrochemical pump osmotic pump an electroosmotic pump a vapor pressure pump or osmotic bursting matrix e.g. where the drug is incorporated into a polymer and the polymer provides for release of drug formulation concomitant with degradation of a drug impregnated polymeric material e.g. a biodegradable drug impregnated polymeric material . In other embodiments the drug release device is based upon an electrodiffusion system an electrolytic pump an effervescent pump a piezoelectric pump a hydrolytic system etc.

Drug release devices based upon a mechanical or electromechanical infusion pump can also be suitable for use with the present invention. Examples of such devices include those described in for example U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 692 147 4 360 019 4 487 603 4 360 019 4 725 852 and the like. In general a subject treatment method can be accomplished using any of a variety of refillable non exchangeable pump systems. Pumps and other convective systems are generally preferred due to their generally more consistent controlled release over time. Osmotic pumps are used in some embodiments due to their combined advantages of more consistent controlled release and relatively small size see e.g. PCT published application no. WO 97 27840 and U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 985 305 and 5 728 396 . Exemplary osmotically driven devices suitable for use in the invention include but are not necessarily limited to those described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 3 760 984 3 845 770 3 916 899 3 923 426 3 987 790 3 995 631 3 916 899 4 016 880 4 036 228 4 111 202 4 111 203 4 203 440 4 203 442 4 210 139 4 327 725 4 627 850 4 865 845 5 057 318 5 059 423 5 112 614 5 137 727 5 234 692 5 234 693 5 728 396 and the like.

In some embodiments the drug delivery device is an implantable device. The drug delivery device can be implanted at any suitable implantation site using methods and devices well known in the art. As noted infra an implantation site is a site within the body of a subject at which a drug delivery device is introduced and positioned. Implantation sites include but are not necessarily limited to a subdermal subcutaneous intramuscular or other suitable site within a subject s body.

In some embodiments an active agent is delivered using an implantable drug delivery system e.g. a system that is programmable to provide for administration of the agent. Exemplary programmable implantable systems include implantable infusion pumps. Exemplary implantable infusion pumps or devices useful in connection with such pumps are described in for example U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 350 155 5 443 450 5 814 019 5 976 109 6 017 328 6 171 276 6 241 704 6 464 687 6 475 180 and 6 512 954. A further exemplary device that can be adapted for the present invention is the Synchromed infusion pump Medtronic .

The blood brain barrier limits the uptake of many therapeutic agents into the brain and spinal cord from the general circulation. Molecules which cross the blood brain barrier use two main mechanisms free diffusion and facilitated transport. Because of the presence of the blood brain barrier attaining beneficial concentrations of a given therapeutic agent in the central nervous system CNS may require the use of drug delivery strategies. Delivery of therapeutic agents to the CNS can be achieved by several methods.

One method relies on neurosurgical techniques. In the case of gravely ill patients such as accident victims or those suffering from various forms of dementia surgical intervention is warranted despite its attendant risks. For instance therapeutic agents can be delivered by direct physical introduction into the CNS such as intraventricular or intrathecal injection of drugs. Intraventricular injection may be facilitated by an intraventricular catheter for example attached to a reservoir such as an Ommaya reservoir. Methods of introduction may also be provided by rechargeable or biodegradable devices. Another approach is the disruption of the blood brain barrier by substances which increase the permeability of the blood brain barrier. Examples include intra arterial infusion of poorly diffusible agents such as mannitol pharmaceuticals which increase cerebrovascular permeability such as etoposide or vasoactive agents such as leukotrienes. Neuwelt and Rappoport 1984 43 214 219 Baba et al. 1991 11 638 643 and Gennuso et al. 1993 11 638 643.

Further it may be desirable to administer the pharmaceutical agents locally to the area in need of treatment this may be achieved by for example local infusion during surgery by injection by means of a catheter or by means of an implant said implant being of a porous non porous or gelatinous material including membranes such as silastic membranes or fibers.

Therapeutic compounds can also be delivered by using pharmacological techniques including chemical modification or screening for an analog which will cross the blood brain barrier. The compound may be modified to increase the hydrophobicity of the molecule decrease net charge or molecular weight of the molecule or modify the molecule so that it will resemble one normally transported across the blood brain barrier. Levin 1980 23 682 684 Pardridge 1991 in and Kostis et al. 1994 34 989 996.

Encapsulation of the drug in a hydrophobic environment such as liposomes is also effective in delivering drugs to the CNS. For example WO 91 04014 describes a liposomal delivery system in which the drug is encapsulated within liposomes to which molecules have been added that are normally transported across the blood brain barrier.

Another method of formulating the drug to pass through the blood brain barrier is to encapsulate the drug in a cyclodextrin. Any suitable cyclodextrin which passes through the blood brain barrier may be employed including but not limited to cyclodextrin cyclodextrin and derivatives thereof. See generally U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 017 566 5 002 935 and 4 983 586. Such compositions may also include a glycerol derivative as described by U.S. Pat. No. 5 153 179.

Delivery may also be obtained by conjugation of a therapeutic agent to a transportable agent to yield a new chimeric transportable therapeutic agent. For example vasoactive intestinal peptide analog VIPa exerted its vasoactive effects only after conjugation to a monoclonal antibody Mab to the specific carrier molecule transferrin receptor which facilitated the uptake of the VIPa Mab conjugate through the blood brain barrier. Pardridge 1991 and Bickel et al. 1993 90 2618 2622. Several other specific transport systems have been identified these include but are not limited to those for transferring insulin or insulin like growth factors I and II. Other suitable non specific carriers include but are not limited to pyridinium fatty acids inositol cholesterol and glucose derivatives. Certain prodrugs have been described whereby upon entering the central nervous system the drug is cleaved from the carrier to release the active drug. U.S. Pat. No. 5 017 566.

Examples of methods of crossing the BBB include use of vasoactive substances such as bradykinin or a bradykinin analog where bradykinin analogs include e.g. Phe CH NH Arg bradykinin N acetyl Phe CH NH Arg bradykinin desArg bradykinin etc. use of nitric oxide NO donor drugs see below localized exposure to high intensity focused ultrasound use of endogenous transport systems including carrier mediated transporters such as glucose and amino acid carriers use of liposomes loaded with nanoparticles containing an active agent where an example of such a nanoparticle is a polyethylene glycol coated hexadecylcyanoacrylate nanosphere see e.g. Silva 2008 9 S4 Brigger et al. 2002 303 928 Wong et al. 2009 . PMID 19914319 Khalil and Mainardes 2009 6 261 Modi et al. 2009 88 272 Barbu et al. 2009 6 553 use of agents e.g. Tariquidar that inhibit P glycoprotein at the BBB and the like.

Suitable NO donor drugs include e.g. organic nitrate compounds which are nitric acid esters of mono and polyhydric alcohols e.g. glyceryl trinitrate GTN or nitroglycerin NTG pentaerythrityl tetranitrate PETN isosorbide dinitrate ISDN and isosorbide 5 mononitrate IS 5 N 5 nitrosothiol compounds e.g. S nitroso N acetyl D L penicillamine SNAP 5 nitrosoglutathione SNOG S nitrosoalbumin S nitrosocysteine sydnonimine compounds e.g. molsidomine N ethoxycarbonyl 3 morpholino sydnonimine linsidomine e.g. SIN 1 3 morpholino sydnonimine or 3 morpholinylsydnoneimine or 5 amino 3 morpholinyl 1 2 3 oxadiazolium and pirsidomine CAS 936 .

In other embodiments an active agent conjugated to a targeting domain to form a chimeric therapeutic where the targeting domain facilitates passage of the blood brain barrier as described above and or binds one or more molecular targets in the CNS. In some embodiments the targeting domain binds a target that is differentially expressed or displayed on or in close proximity to tissues organs and or cells of interest. In some cases the target is preferentially distributed in a neurogenic region of the brain such as the dentate gyrus and or the SVZ. For example in some embodiments an active agent is conjugated or complexed with the fatty acid docosahexaenoic acid DHA which is readily transported across the blood brain barrier and imported into cells of the CNS.

A TGF pathway inhibitor e.g. an agent that blocks a TGF pathway can be administered in monotherapy e.g. a single TGF pathway inhibitor is administered in the absence of administration of any other therapeutic agent for the treatment of the epilepsy or the neurodegenerative disorder. Alternatively a TGF pathway inhibitor e.g. an agent that blocks a TGF pathway can be administered in combination therapy with one or more additional therapeutic agents.

For example in the treatment of epilepsy a TGF pathway inhibitor can be administered to an individual in combination therapy with one or more additional therapeutic agents for the treatment of epilepsy. Therapeutic agents that are suitable for administration in combination therapy with a TGF pathway inhibitor include but are not limited to Carbamazepine Carbatrol Clobazam Depakene Depakote Diastat Dilantin Ethosuximide Felbatol Felbamate Frisium Gabapentin Gabitril Inovelon Luminal Lyrica Mysoline Neurontin Oxcarbazepine Phenobarbital Phenylek Phenyloin Primidone Rufinamde Sabril Tegretol Tegretol XR Tiagabine Topamax Topiramate Keppra Keppra XR Klonopin Lmaictal Lamotrigine Levetiracetam Trileptal Valproic Acid Zarontin Zonegran and Zonisamide.

As another example in the treatment of Alzheimer s Disease AD a TGF pathway inhibitor can be administered to an individual in combination therapy with one or more additional therapeutic agents for the treatment of AD. Suitable additional therapeutic agents include but are not limited to acetylcholinesterase inhibitors including but not limited to Aricept donepezil Exelon rivastigmine metrifonate and tacrine Cognex non steroidal anti inflammatory agents including but not limited to ibuprofen and indomethacin cyclooxygenase 2 Cox2 inhibitors such as Celebrex and monoamine oxidase inhibitors such as Selegilene Eldepryl or Deprenyl . Dosages for each of the above agents are known in the art. For example Aricept is generally administered at 50 mg orally per day for 6 weeks and if well tolerated by the individual at 10 mg per day thereafter.

As another example in the treatment of stroke a TGF pathway inhibitor can be administered to an individual in combination therapy with one or more additional therapeutic agents for the treatment of stroke. For example a TGF pathway inhibitor can be administered to an individual in combination therapy with tissue plasminogen activator.

Individuals who are suitable for treatment with a TGF inhibitor pathway include individuals who have been diagnosed with epilepsy individuals who have suffered a stroke individuals who have suffered traumatic head injury individuals who have suffered brain infection i.e. viral or bacterial encephalitis and individuals having a neurodegenerative disorder or neurological symptoms due to diseases of small blood vessels vasculitis diabetes mellitus .

Subjects suitable for treatment with a subject method include individuals having one or more of the following disorders epilepsy traumatic brain injury stroke brain infection i.e. viral or bacterial encephalitis and neurodegenerative diseases including that resulted from a small vessel disease e.g. diabetes mellitus . A subject method is suitable for treating epilepsy including posttraumatic epilepsy Parkinson s disease psychosis migraine cerebral ischemic Alzheimer s disease and other degenerative diseases such as Huntington s chorea schizophrenia obsessive compulsive disorders OCD neurological deficits associated with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome traumatic brain injury inappropriate neuronal activity resulting in neurodysthesias in diseases such as diabetes multiple sclerosis MS and motor neuron disease ataxias muscular rigidity spasticity temporomandibular joint dysfunction and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ALS .

The following examples are put forth so as to provide those of ordinary skill in the art with a complete disclosure and description of how to make and use the present invention and are not intended to limit the scope of what the inventors regard as their invention nor are they intended to represent that the experiments below are all or the only experiments performed. Efforts have been made to ensure accuracy with respect to numbers used e.g. amounts temperature etc. but some experimental errors and deviations should be accounted for. Unless indicated otherwise parts are parts by weight molecular weight is weight average molecular weight temperature is in degrees Celsius and pressure is at or near atmospheric. Standard abbreviations may be used e.g. bp base pair s kb kilobase s pl picoliter s s or sec second s min minute s h or hr hour s aa amino acid s kb kilobase s bp base pair s nt nucleotide s i.m. intramuscular ly i.p. intraperitoneal ly s.c. subcutaneous ly and the like.

All experimental procedures were approved by the ethical committees dealing with experiments on animals at Charit University Medicine Berlin and Ben Gurion University of the Negev Beer Sheva. The in vivo experiments were performed as previously described Ivens et al. 2007 Seiffert et al. 2004 . Adult male Wistar rats were treated with artificial cerebrospinal fluid aCSF composition in mM 129 NaCl 21 NaHCO3 1.25 NaH2PO4 1.8 MgSO4 1.6 CaCl2 3 KCl 10 glucose supplemented with deoxycholic acid DOC 2 mM Sigma Aldrich Steinheim Germany bovine serum albumin BSA 0.1 mM Merck Darmstadt Germany corresponding to 25 of serum albumin concentration or with TGF 1 10 ng ml Peprotech Rocky Hill N.J. . Sham operated animals perfused with aCSF served as controls. Only rats with no apparent injury to the cortical surface or bleeding from cortical vessels as seen under the surgical microscope at the end of the procedure were used. Animals were sacrificed 7 8 24 or 48 hours following treatment. A second set of animals including sham operated controls and animals treated with BSA or BSA plus TGF R blockers TGF RII antibody 50 g ml Santa Cruz Biotechnology Santa Cruz Calif. SB431542 100 M Tocris Bristol UK were sacrificed 24 hours following treatment. For Smad2 P immunodetection animals were treated with 0.2 mM BSA and sacrificed 46 50 hours following treatment.

Brain slices for the in vitro experiments were prepared by means of standard techniques Ivens et al. 2007 Pavlovsky et al. 2003 Seiffert et al. 2004 . Slices were transferred to a recording chamber where they were incubated in aCSF containing BSA 6.7 mg ml TGF 1 10 ng ml or artificial serum aSerum composition based on aCSF with the following changes composition in mM 0.8 MgSO4 1.3 CaCl2 5.7 KCl 1 L glutamine 0.1 albumin . To block the activity of TGF 1 slices were incubated in aCSF containing SB431542 10 M before the addition of TGF 1 10 ng ml . To block TGF Rs slices were incubated in aCSF containing SB431542 10 M and TGF RII antibody 10 g ml for 30 min followed by incubation in BSA in the presence of TGF R blockers. For detection of epileptiform activity field potentials were recorded 4 h following incubation in cortical layer IV using extracellular glass microelectrodes 3M in response to bipolar stimulation at the border of white and grey matter.

To prepare cortical lysates brains were isolated from adult Wistar rats dissected in cold saline solution and lysed in RIPA buffer. BSA 3 g was added to lysates to approximately match the amount of precipitating anti albumin antibodies. Immunoprecipitation was performed using the Catch and Release v2.0 Reversible Immunoprecipitation System Upstate Charlottesville Va. with the following modifications to the standard protocol the starting amount of protein was increased to 1 500 g and the incubation time with precipitating antibodies was increased to 90 minutes. Lysate samples positive or negative for albumin were immunoprecipitated with an anti TGF RII antibody Upstate or an anti albumin antibody Biogenesis Poole UK .

The immunoprecipitated samples were separated with SDS PAGE and transferred onto a nitrocellulose membrane. The membrane was stained with Ponceau S stain to confirm that the IP procedure was successful. It was then destained and blocked with 5 BSA in standard TBS T buffer overnight at 4 C. TGF RII was detected with a rabbit anti TGF RII antibody Upstate and an AP conjugated donkey anti rabbit IgG secondary antibody Jackson ImmunoResearch Laboratories West Grove Pa. . Chemiluminescent detection was done using Lumi Phos WB Chemiluminescent Substrate Pierce Rockfort Ill. and standard X ray film according to the manufacturer s instructions.

Cortical lysate samples from sham operated controls and animals treated with BSA were separated by SDS PAGE and transferred onto a nitrocellulose membrane. The membrane was blocked with 5 nonfat milk overnight at 4 C. incubated with a rabbit polyclonal antibody against phospho Smad2 Millipore Corporation Bedford Mass. for 48 hr at 4 C. and incubated with a peroxidase conjugated goat anti rabbit IgG secondary antibody Jackson ImmunoResearch Laboratories for 2 hr at room temperature.

Total RNA was isolated using the TRIzol reagent Invitrogen Carlsbad Calif. and prepared using the Affymetrix GeneChip one cycle target labeling kit Affymetrix Santa Clara Calif. . Biotinylated cRNA was fragmented and hybridized to the GeneChip Rat Genome 230 2.0 Array according to company protocols Affymetrix Technical Manual . Normalization of the array data was done using GCRMA GC Robust Multi Array Average analysis. Functional annotation analysis was performed with the program Database for Annotation Visualization and Integrated Discovery DAVID 2008 Dennis et al. 2003 http double forward slash david dot abcc dot ncifcrf dot gov . The GenMAPP 2.0 program Salomonis et al. 2007 http www.genmapp.org was used to visualize genes involved in TGF signaling. For the time course analysis one array was run for each treatment DOC BSA TGF 1 for the following time points 7 8 24 and 48 hr. In addition a sample from a sham treated animal 24 hr was run and used to normalize the other arrays. Pairwise Pearson correlation coefficients for the three treatments were determined with Excel Microsoft Corp. Richmod Wash. . Hierarchical clustering was performed with Gene Cluster and displayed with TreeView software Eisen et al. 1998 . Arrays were then run for the second set of animals sacrificed 24 hr following treatment Sham n 2 BSA n 3 BSA TGF R blockers n 4 . Significance analysis of microarrays SAM was performed with a false discovery rate FDR threshold of 9.2 . A 1.5 fold change cutoff was also used to filter this list. Genes which demonstrated a significant change in expression following albumin treatment and a log 2 ratio difference 0.5 between the two treatments were considered part of the attenuated response. Genes demonstrating a significant change in expression following albumin and albumin plus blocker treatments were considered part of the unattenuated response. All microarray data are available at the GEO website http www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov geo under accession number GSE12304.

mRNA expression levels were determined by quantitative reverse transcriptase PCR by real time kinetic analysis with an iQ5 detection system Bio Rad Hercules Calif. . Real time PCR data were analyzed using the PCR Miner program Zhao and Fernald 2005 . 18S mRNA levels were used as internal controls for variations in sample preparation. Primer sequences are provided in supplementary methods.

For the electrophysiological data differences between treated and control slices were determined by the Mann Whitney U test for two independent samples or the chi square test using SPSS13.0 SPSS Inc. Chicago Ill. . Linear regression analysis for the microarray data was performed with Graphpad Prism GraphPad Software Inc. San Diego Calif. . PCR data were analyzed with an unpaired Student s t test p

To assess the hypothesis that activation of the TGF signaling pathway is the mechanism underlying albumin induced epileptogenesis we activated this pathway directly by incubating neocortical slices with TGF 1 10 ng mL in artificial cerebrospinal fluid aCSF and performed electrophysiological recordings. These recordings were compared to those of slices treated with a solution containing serum levels of electrolytes and 0.1 mM albumin aSERUM previously shown to induce epileptogenesis Ivens et al. 2007 albumin in aCSF or aCSF control . Spontaneous prolonged and hypersynchronous interictal like activity was observed in slices treated with aSERUM for 6 10 hours n 6 out of 9 slices 3 animals but never in aCSF treated slices . When albumin was added to the control aCSF solution epileptiform activity was recorded in response to stimulation of the white matter n 8 out of 12 slices 6 animals . Importantly TGF 1 treatment was sufficient to recapitulate epileptiform activity similar to that seen following treatment with aSERUM and albumin in aCSF n 5 out of 5 slices 4 animals n 7 out of 9 slices 3 animals and n 8 out of 12 slices 6 animals respectively . In all three cases the evoked epileptiform activity was all or none in nature paroxysmal and prolonged similar to that seen following BBB opening with bile salts Ivens et al. 2007 Seiffert et al. 2004 and typical to that observed in acute models of epilepsy Gutnick et al. 1982 . No activity was seen in the aCSF control treated slices.

To further confirm that the TGF 1 induced epileptiform activity was dependent on the TGF R mediated pathway we performed additional trials of the above experiments in the presence of two TGF R blockers SB431542 the TGF RI kinase activity inhibitor and TGF RII antibody . TGF R blockers prevented epileptiform activity induced by TGF 1 or albumin . The measured integral of the field potential albumin 117.2 35.4 mV ms TGF 1 84.1 20.1 mV ms was significantly lower in slices treated with albumin or TGF 1 in the presence of TGF R blockers albumin and blockers 23.7 6.9 mV ms n 20 slices 4 animals p 0.001 TGF 1 and blockers 12.5 3.9 mV ms n 8 slices 4 animals p 0.005 .

To determine whether albumin binds to TGF receptors co immunoprecipitation using antibodies against albumin or TGF RII was performed on cortical lysate samples treated with albumin. An expected band corresponding to TGF RII was detected in samples immunoprecipitated with the TGF RII antibody. More importantly this band was also detected in samples pre incubated with albumin when immunoprecipitated with the albumin antibody and probed for TGF RII . These results reveal a direct interaction between albumin and TGF RII. In the canonical TGF signaling pathway Smad2 and or 3 are phosphorylated following TGF receptor activation and form a complex with Smad4 which then translocates into the nucleus and activates transcription Shi and Massague 2003 . To investigate whether albumin activates downstream components of the TGF pathway Smad2 phosphorylation levels in cortical lysates were assessed by Western blot revealing an increase in Smad2 phosphorylation in animals exposed to albumin for 48 hours as compared to sham operated controls .

BBB opening or exposure to albumin in vivo Ivens et al. 2007 as well as in vitro exposure of neocortical slices to albumin or TGF 1 all result in the gradual development of hypersynchronous neuronal epileptiform activity. The delayed appearance of abnormal activity 5 7 hours in vitro and 4 days in vivo data not shown Ivens et al. 2007 suggests a transcription mediated mechanism. In search of a common pathway and transcriptional activation pattern that underlie epileptogenesis following BBB opening we performed transcriptome analysis using Affymetrix rat microarrays. RNA was extracted from cortical regions of rats treated with sodium deoxycholate DOC to induce BBB opening albumin or TGF 1 for various durations 7 8 24 48 hr . Control RNA was extracted from cortical regions excised from sham operated animals. Hierarchical clustering analysis of these arrays showed that overall the three treatments resulted in strikingly similar gene expression changes as arrays representing similar time points clustered together regardless of the treatment . These similarities are exemplified in which shows a high correlation between the expression profiles for the albumin and TGF 1 treatments at 24 hours r 0.75 p

To identify biological themes common to the three treatments the gene list was filtered to include genes showing at least a 1.5 fold change in expression and a Pearson correlation coefficient 0.95 for pair wise comparisons between all treatments see methods . Hierarchical clustering was performed and the main clusters were used for gene ontology GO analysis with DAVID Database for Annotation Visualization and Integrated Discovery Dennis et al. 2003 . Molecular function and biological process GO terms with a p value

Selected GO term groups were chosen for further analysis of individual gene expression profiles . The most dramatic change observed in all treatments across all time points was the early and persistent upregulation of genes associated with immune response activation including inflammatory NF kappa B pathway related genes cytokines and chemokines and complement pathway genes . A significant neuronal response was prominent in the middle late time points and included downregulation of genes associated with GABAergic inhibitory neurotransmission and modulation of genes associated with glutamatergic excitatory neurotransmission again . Furthermore a variety of voltage gated ion channels including calcium sodium chloride and potassium channels were affected by all three epileptogenic treatments including a noteworthy downregulation of voltage gated Kv7.3 and Kv8.1 and inward rectifying Kir3.1 potassium channels. We also found significant modulation of glial specific genes beginning in the early time point the cytoskeletal proteins GFAP and vimentin Vim and several calcium binding proteins S100a6 S100a10 s100a11 were all upregulated while gap junction connexins 30 and 43 Cx30 and Cx43 and the inward rectifying potassium channel Kir4.1 were downregulated. Microarray based gene expression measurements for selected genes were further verified using quantitative real time PCR. Expression patterns were similar although the magnitude of the fold changes sometimes differed.

Given the high correlation between expression profiles following the three epileptogenic treatments combined with the biochemical evidence that albumin binds to TGF receptors and the physiological evidence that TGF treatment induces epileptogenesis we assessed the extent to which each treatment activates transcription of genes known to be associated with the TGF signaling pathway using GenMAPP Salomonis et al. 2007 . Genes which showed at least a 1.5 fold change in expression following albumin or TGF 1 treatment are highlighted in demonstrating that 86 of genes modulated by TGF 1 treatment are also modulated following albumin treatment.

The above evidence indicates that TGF signaling is a key mediator of albumin induced epileptogenesis. To determine if the global transcriptional response seen following albumin treatment is dependent on activation of the TGF signaling pathway we performed an additional set of microarray expression profiles using rats treated with albumin in the absence n 3 or presence of TGF RI and II blockers n 4 TGF RI kinase activity inhibitor SB431542 and anti TGF RII antibody and sacrificed 24 hours following treatment. Although some changes in gene expression resulting from albumin treatment were still present following the blocker treatment the majority of these changes were absent or attenuated following TGF pathway blocker treatment confirming dependence of the albumin induced transcriptional response on TGF signaling.

Gene ontology analysis was then used to reveal which biological processes were blocked following TGF pathway blocker treatment . Genes in the TGF signaling GO term demonstrated a dramatic suppression of the albumin induced expression changes in the presence of TGF signaling blockers . In addition TGF pathway blocker treatment prevented the albumin induced modulation of genes involved in neuronal processes immune response and ion and cellular transport . Several prominent signaling pathways including the NF kappaB cascade Jak Stat cascade and MAPKKK cascade were upregulated following albumin treatment but did not show a similar upregulation following albumin treatment in the presence of TGF pathway blockers. Quantitative real time PCR was also performed with these samples to confirm the microarray results . Indeed TGF pathway blocker treatment completely blocked expression changes following albumin exposure for Stat3 and Glt 1 and partially blocked changes for Cx43 and GFAP.

Wistar male rats 160 190 g were deeply anesthetized with Ketamin 311 mg Kg body weight and Xylazine 11 mg Kg body weight and placed in a stereotactic frame. Sagittal incision was made and a rectangular bone window was drilled over the sensory motor cortex. The dura was removed and the underlying brain perfused for 40 minutes with aCSF for sham operated animals Group A n 2 bovine serum albumin BSA dissolved in aCSF for treated animals Group B n 4 or a mixture of BSA and losartan potassium dissolved in aCSF for a second group of treated animals Group C n 4 . BSA concentration was 0.2 mM 98 in agarose gel electrophoresis Sigma and the concentration of Losartan potassium was 10 M. The composition of the aCSF was in mM 129 NaCl 21 NaHCO 1.25 NaHPO 1.8 MgSO 1.6 CaCl 3 KCl and 10 glucose. After perfusion the bone window was carefully closed and the skin was sutured. Only rats with no apparent injury to the cortical surface of bleeding from cortical vessels as seen under the surgical microscope at the end of the procedure were included in this study.

Animals were sacrificed 46 50 hours after surgery the brain was removed from each animal and the treated area was dissected. Western blot analysis was used to detect the levels of phosphorylated Smad2 and Smad3 proteins. The results are shown in .

Changes in mRNA expression levels were determined for animals treated with BSA or BSA in addition to losartan for 24 hours. Quantitative reverse transcriptase PCR by real time kinetic analysis was performed with an iQ5 detection system Bio Rad Hercules Calif. . Real time PCR data were analyzed using the PCR Miner program Leonoudakis et al. 2008 and 18S mRNA levels were used as internal controls for variations in sample preparation. The results are shown in .

Brain activity was recorded from awake behaving rats during the epileptogenic time window using implanted electrodes positioned on the surface of the cerebral cortex Data Science International USA . The EEG data is depicted in . Signal harmony A and complexity fractal dimension B were computed and shown to increase and decrease respectively during albumin induced epileptogenesis BSA big broken line indicating a gradual increase in network synchronicity. Using a home made automatic detection of seizure like events SLEs a sharp increase in their number one week following treatment was observed. A single focal application of Losartan together with BSA reversed the albumin induced EEG changes observed during epileptogenesis A B small broken line to those similar to sham controls unbroken line . Furthermore the number of seizure like events SLEs was significantly smaller in losartan treated rats n 7 compared to BSA treated ones n 8 .

Animals were housed and handled according to the directives of the internationally accredited Animal Care and Use Committees IACUC at Charit University Medicine Berlin and Ben Gurion University of the Negev Beer Sheva. All experimental procedures were approved by the ethical committees supervising experiments on animals at Charit University Medicine in vivo approval no. G0104 05 in vitro T0228 04 and Ben Gurion University of the Negev approval no. BGU R 71 2006 .

The in vivo experiments were performed as previously described in Seiffert et al. 2004 . In brief adult male Wistar rats 120 250 g were anesthetized using ketamine and xylazine and placed in a stereotactic frame. A 4 mm diameter bone window was drilled over the somatosensory cortex the dura was opened and the underlying cortex was perfused with artificial cerebrospinal fluid ACSF . For the treated rats group the BBB disrupting agent deoxycholic acid sodium salt DOC 2 mM Sigma Aldrich Steinheim Germany or bovine serum albumin 0.1 mM 98 in agarose cell electrophoresis catalogue no. A7906 Sigma Aldrich Steinheim Germany was added to the ACSF. Albumin concentrations corresponded to 25 of the normal serum concentration determined to be 0.4 mM for 10 rats see also Geursen and Grigor 1987 final osmolarity of 303 305 mOsmol l . For the sham operated control group the cortex was perfused with ACSF. The composition of the ACSF was in mM 129 NaCl 21 NaHCO 1.25 NaHPO 1.8 MgSO 1.6 CaCl 3 KCl and 10 glucose. Rats were sacrificed at 7 8 24 or 48 h following treatment before the onset of epileptiform activity 4 days see Seiffert et al. 2004 .

Total RNA from animals treated with DOC or with albumin was isolated from the somatosensory cortex directly under the craniotomy area using the TRIzol reagent Invitrogen Carlsbad Calif. and prepared using the Affymetrix GeneChip one cycle target labeling kit Affymetrix Santa Clara Calif. . Biotinylated cRNA was then fragmented and hybridized to the GeneChip Rat Genome 230 2.0 Array according to manufacturer s protocols Affymetrix Technical Manual . The array data was normalized by using GCRMA GC Robust Multi Array Average or RMA Robust Multi Array Average analysis. One array was run for each treatment DOC and albumin and for every contralateral hemisphere for the following time points 7 8 24 and 48 h. The data from a sham treated animal 24 h was used to normalize the other arrays. To identify genes involved in astrocytic functions GeneCards http www.genecards.org querying for astrocyte was used. For comparison of the relative changes in the expression of astrocytic vs. neuronal genes gene sets of astrocytic and neuronal enriched genes expressed by S100 and S100 PDGFR MOG cells respectively were used Cahoy et al. J Neurosci 28 264 278 2008 . Cluster analysis was performed with MATLAB by assessing the expression relationship as the Euclidean distance in N dimensional space between measurements N denotes number of gene transcripts . Arrays were then clustered according to distance data by using the Unweighted Pair Group Method with Arithmetic mean method UPGMA Gronau and Moran 2007 .

Primary neuronal cortical cultures were prepared from embryonic day 18 rats as reported previously Kaufer et al. 2004 . Briefly cells were dissociated with a papain solution for 20 min at 37 C. After the removal of the papain solution the tissue was resuspended in growth medium MEM with Earle s salts containing 2.5 B27 supplement 0.1 mito serum extender 5 fetal bovine serum FBS 20 mM glucose and 5 mM L glutamine and dissociated by mechanical trituration. The cells were plated and after 4 h in vitro the cell culture medium was replaced with neurobasal medium supplemented with 2 B27 supplement and 0.5 mM GlutaMAX . The cells were maintained in 5 COat 37 C. After 7 days in vitro cytosine arabinofuranoside AraC 10 M was added to the cultures. After 10 days in vitro the cells were incubated with 0.4 mM albumin for 24 h at 37 C. For astrocytic cultures astrocytes were isolated from the cerebral cortices of PO rat pups. Cells were dissociated with papain and mechanical trituration. The cells were cultured in high glucose Dulbecco s modified eagle medium supplemented with 10 FBS and 1 penicillin streptomycin at 37 C. and in 5 CO2 medium was replaced every 3 4 days . After 10 days in vitro the culture medium was replaced with serum free high glucose DMEM containing 1 penicillin streptomycin for 18 h. The cells were then incubated in serum free medium containing 0.4 mM albumin for 24 h at 37 C. For immunostainings cells were washed with phosphate buffered saline PBS and fixed in 4 paraformaldehyde for 15 min. The cells were permeabilized with 0.2 Triton X 100 in PBS for 5 min and washed in PBS. They were then incubated with 5 normal donkey serum in PBS for one hour at room temperature followed by overnight incubation at 4 C. with either mouse anti NeuN 1 1000 Chemicon Temecula Calif. or mouse anti GFAP 1 1000 Cell Signaling Technology Beverly Mass. . The cells were washed in PBS incubated with donkey anti mouse Cy3 1 1000 Jackson ImmunoResearch West Grove Pa. for 1 hour at room temperature and then counterstained with DAPI.

Total RNA was isolated from the somatosensory cortices of animals treated with DOC or albumin 24 h treatment n 3 or from primary cultures astrocytic and neuronal n 3 independent experiments . Expression levels were determined by real time reverse transcriptase PCR RT PCR with an iQ5 detection system Bio Rad Hercules Calif. using gene specific primer pairs. RT PCR data were analyzed using the PCR Miner program Zhao and Fernald 2005 and fold changes in gene expression were represented relative to sham operated controls in vivo samples or serum deprived controls in vitro samples . Ribosomal 18S RNA 18S rRNA was used as an internal control for variations in sample preparation. For samples from in vivo treatments RT PCR was performed with the iScript one step RT PCR kit Bio Rad . Control RT PCR reactions were performed without reverse transcriptase to verify amplification of genomic DNA. For in vitro samples DNase treatment was applied followed by first strand cDNA synthesis iScript cDNA Synthesis kit Bio Rad . PCR reactions were carried out with iQ SYBR Green Supermix Bio Rad . Primer specificity was verified by melt curve analysis. The amplification cycles for 18S Gja1 GS SLC1A2 SLC1A3 GLAST and Kcnj10 consisted of 40 cycles of 10 s at 95 C. 30 s at 55 C. and 30 s at 72 C. The amplification cycles for Gjb2 and Gjb6 consisted of 40 cycles of 10 s at 95 C. 30 s at 60 C. and 30 s at 72 C.

Primer sequences forward reverse were as follows 18S rRNA GenBank accession number M11188.1 5 CCATCCAATCGGTAGTAGCG 3 SEQ ID NO 1 5 GTAACCCGTTGAACCCCATT 3 SEQ ID NO 2 SLC1A3 GenBank accession number NM 019225.1 5 GAGGCCATGGAGACTCTGAC 3 SEQ ID NO 3 5 CGAAGCACATGGAGAAGACA 3 SEQ ID NO 4 GS GenBank accession number NM 017073.3 5 AGCGACATGTACCTCCATCC 3 SEQ ID NO 5 5 TACAGCTGTGCCTCAGGTTG 3 SEQ ID NO 6 Kcnj10 GenBank accession number X83585.1 5 GAGACGACGCAGACAGAGAG 3 SEQ ID NO 7 5 CCACTGCATGTCAATGAAGG 3 SEQ ID NO 8 Gjb2 GenBank accession number NM 001004099.1 5 GGTTTGTGATGTGAGCATGG 3 SEQ ID NO 9 5 CTCAGCACACCAAGGATGAA 3 SEQ ID NO 10 Gjb6 GenBank accession number NM 053388.1 5 GCCAAGATGAGTCACAGCAA 3 SEQ ID NO 11 5 TCAGAGCTGGATCACAATCG 3 SEQ ID NO 12 Gja1 GenBank accession number NM 012567.2 5 TCCTTGGTGTCTCTCGCTTT 3 SEQ ID NO 13 5 TTTGGAGATCCGCAGTCTTT 3 SEQ ID NO 14 SLC1A2 GenBank accession number NM 017215.2 5 GGTCAATGTAGTGGGCGATT 3 SEQ ID NO 15 5 GGACTGCGTCTTGGTCATTT 3 SEQ ID NO 16 .

For electrophysiological experiments rats were deeply anesthetized with isoflurane and then decapitated. Brains were quickly removed and transverse hippocampal cortical slices 400 m thick were prepared using a vibratome Campden Instruments Loughborough UK . Slices were maintained in a humidified carbogenated 5 COand 95 O gas atmosphere at 36 1 C. and perfused with ACSF in a standard interface chamber Seiffert et al. 2004 Ivens et al. 2007 . To mimic the altered ionic environment during BBB disruption recordings were acquired in a serum adapted electrolyte solution sACSF see Seiffert et al. 2004 . sACSF was similar in composition to the ACSF except for different concentrations of MgSO 0.8 mM CaCl 1.3 mM KCl 5.7 mM and glutamine 1 mM . Treated slices were incubated with sACSF containing 0.1 mM bovine serum albumin for 2 h before transfer to the perfusion chamber.

Electrophysiological recordings were obtained 6 10 h following perfusion with sACSF. Control slices were treated similarly using sACSF without albumin. For extracellular recordings glass microelectrodes 3 M 154 mM NaCl were positioned in layer 4 of the neocortex. Slices were stimulated with brief 100 s pulses by using bipolar stimulation electrodes placed at the border between white and gray matter in the same cortical column. Trains of 50 stimuli were applied at 2 5 10 20 50 and 100 Hz at 2.5 threshold stimulation intensity. Signals were amplified SEC 10L NPI Electronics Tamm Germany filtered at 2 kHz displayed on an oscilloscope digitized on line CED 1401 micro Cambridge Electronics Design Cambridge UK and stored for off line analysis. Extracellular potassium concentrations K were measured with ion sensitive microelectrodes ISMEs Lux and Neher 1973 Jauch et al. 2002 .

In vitro intracellular recordings were obtained from pyramidal neurons layer 2 3 23 28 h following the in vivo treatment with albumin or from control rats. Currents were recorded using the whole cell patch configuration as described previously Pavlovsky et al. 2003 . In brief glass pipettes were pulled from capillaries using a vertical puller Narashige Greenvale N.Y. and filled with a solution comprising in mM 150 CsCl 1 MgCl 10 HEPES 4NaATP 0.1 CaCl and 1.1 mM EGTA pH adjusted to 7.2 with a final osmolarity of 290 310 mOsm. Cells were visualized using infrared differential interference phase contrast video microscopy. Recordings were performed using AxoPatch 700B Axon Instruments Foster City Calif. digitized at 10 kHz and recorded using pClamp 9.2 Axon Instruments Foster City Calif. . Patch pipette s resistance was 4 5 Ma Series resistance was not electronically compensated however cells in which series resistance varied by more than 25 were excluded from the analysis. Stimulation protocols were started at least 5 min following impalement to allow intracellular dialysis with the pipette solution. Excitatory post synaptic currents EPSCs were evoked using a bipolar stimulating electrode positioned 

A computer model was implemented using the NEURON modeling environment Hines and Carnevale 1997 with 20 s time steps. The model consisted of a multi compartment isolated cell simulating a layer 2 3 cortical neuron using only passive membrane properties. Geometric parameters and spatial relationships of the 74 compartments were modeled after Traub and colleagues 2003 . Resting membrane potential was set at 65 mV determined by Na and K conductance membrane capacitance Cwas 0.9 F cm and the cytoplasmic resistance was set at 250 cm. Simulated excitatory inputs consisted of eight synapses on apical dendrites located 1368 m from the soma contributing currents with AMPA and NMDA kinetics modeled after Saftenku 2005 and Kampa et al. 2004 respectively. AMPA to NMDA maximal current ratios were set at 1 Myme et al. 2003 . Synaptic currents were triggered by a surge of glutamate decaying with first order kinetics baseline time constant 1.2 ms . Down regulation of uptake mechanisms was simulated by changing the time constant of the decay function similar to the effect of the application of DL threo benzyloxyaspartate DL TBOA Diamond 2005 . To investigate the effects of altered K each compartment was enveloped by a fixed space in which potassium was allowed to accumulate. K diffused either into the bathing solution or into astrocytes with Kkinetics. Since Kchannel conductance is proportional to K Sakmann and Trube 1984 K influx into astrocytes was determined by the local potassium gradient K K modulated by Kconductance log K adapted from Ciani et al. 1978 .

where I momentary K flux nA cm I resting K flux nA cm time constant for potassium diffusion into the extracellular space time constant for potassium diffusion into astrocytes F Faraday constant C ratio of astrocytic K uptake relative to extracellular diffusion and V radius of enveloping extracellular space set at 20 nm Egelman and Montague 1999 Savtchenko et al. 2000 . The ionic flux equation describes first order potassium clearance by both free diffusion and astrocytic uptake see Kager et al. 2000 . Lateral diffusion of K ions was not taken into account. To simulate a decrease in astrocytic potassium clearance astrocytic was increased to mimic a reduction in astrocytic Kchannels. Resting ion concentrations were set at in mM Na 145 Na 12 K 3.5 K 140.

Data are expressed as means SEM. Differences between treated and control slices were determined by the Mann Whitney U test for two independent samples. Statistical tests were performed using SPSS13.0 for Windows. The level of statistical significance was set at p

To explore changes in astrocytic gene expression during epileptogenesis gene array data from DOC and albumin treated brains n 3 from each treatment were analyzed during the first 48 h after treatment and prior to the development of epileptiform activity Ivens et al. 2007 Seiffert et al. 2004 . When compared to sham operated controls the two treatments at each time point resulted in similar changes in expression of astrocytic enriched genes with a correlation coefficients between the different treatments see Methods of r 0.69 0.82 0.85 for 8 24 and 48 h following treatment respectively p

In a recent study Cahoy and colleagues 2008 created a transcriptome database reflecting cell type specific comprehensive mRNA expression levels in astrocytes neurons and oligodendrocytes. We used these gene lists to classify genes into astrocytic or neuronal categories. When compared with the neuronal category at all examined time points the astrocytic category included a higher average number of genes that underwent a change in expression of more than 150 . Comparison between the results at 8 and 48 h after treatment showed an increase in the average number of genes that reached 150 change in both groups 34 vs. 40 for astrocytes and 21 vs. 28 for neurons 8 and 48 h after treatment respectively . The expression levels of genes reported as over expressed in reactive astrocytes Ridet et al. 1997 was also examined and found to show a large overlap with over expressed genes 8 24 and 48 h following both treatments . These results are consistent with the hypothesis that an early and prominent change in astrocytic gene expression is an important early feature of BBB breakdown or albumin induced epileptogenesis.

In their pioneering study Kuffler and Potter 1964 established that astrocytes are crucial for the control of the brain s extracellular environment. Specifically these cells limit the accumulation of K and glutamate Oliet et al. 2001 Newman et al. 2004 thus potentially contributing to the regulation of neuronal excitability. The gene array results were searched for changes in the level of expression of several potassium and glutamate homeostasis related genes. Transcripts coding for the predominantly astrocytic Kcnj10 but not neuronal e.g. Kcnj2 or Kcnc1 see Butt and Kalsi 2006 inward rectifying K channel K were found to be down regulated. In addition the mRNA coding for the astrocytic glutamate transporters of the solute carrier family 1 subfamily A members SLC1A2 and SLC1A3 see Su et al. 2003 Chaudhry et al. 1995 but not for SLC1A4 was down regulated. In contrast SLC1A1 preferentially expressed in neurons see Rothstein et al. 1994 did not show significant changes in expression levels. Glutaminase Gls Gls2 and glutamine synthetase GS both of which are predominantly expressed in astrocytes Derouiche and Frotscher 1991 and are responsible for regulating glutamate levels were also down regulated . Furthermore the gene arrays showed that at most time points there was a significant down regulation of gap junction proteins Gja1 Gjb2 Gjb6 24 h following treatment a finding that indicates reduced spatial buffering capacity see Wallraff et al 2006 . Real time RT PCR confirmed the main observations obtained from the gene arrays i.e. significant up regulation of GFAP and down regulation of KCNJ10 K4.1 as well as KCNJ3 SLC1A2 and SLC1A3 Gja1 Gjb2 and Gjb6 at all time points connexins 43 26 and 30 respectively . In contrast glutamine synthetase did not show significant down regulation .

The microarray results indicated a rapid and robust change in astrocytic gene expression in vivo following BBB breakdown or brain exposure to serum albumin. To further validate the specificity of the astrocytic response to albumin cell cultures enriched with either astrocytes or neurons were exposed see Methods to albumin for 24 h. Significantly the astrocytic cultures responded with significant down regulation of the same transcripts found to respond in vivo to albumin SLC1A3 GS Gja1 Gjb2 and Gjb6 . No significant differences in expression levels of the same transcripts were found in the neuronal enriched culture except for downregulation of GS and upregulation of Gjb6 mRNA levels confirming that the changes observed in vivo do indeed reflect an astrocytic response.

To confirm that the transcriptional changes induced by albumin were associated with altered cellular functions the clearance of extracellular glutamate and potassium in cortical slices 24 hours following albumin treatment in vivo was investigated. To measure synaptic glutamate levels during neuronal activation the slowly inactivating Lester et al. 1990 NMDA currents in cortical neurons were recorded by using the whole cell patch configuration in the presence of non NMDA glutamate and GABA receptor blockers see Methods . Cells were clamped at 40 mV to prevent a potential confounding effect of post synaptic depolarization due to the accumulation of synaptic K . Mean single EPSC rise time and amplitude were similar in both control and albumin treated groups 14.5 0.5 vs. 13.2 0.7 ms and 505 100 vs. 492 140 pA for rise time not shown and amplitude respectively in treated vs. controls inset suggesting that no changes in post synaptic NMDA receptor density or properties at this time point data not shown . Synaptic glutamate elicited by 50 extracellular stimulations at 2 5 10 20 50 and 100 Hz before and after adding the astrocytic SLC1A2 specific inhibitor DHK was measured. In neurons from control animals DHK had no effect on single EPSCs or EPSCs elicited at low stimulation frequencies 20 Hz resulted in increased NMDA currents or reduced depression when normalized to the first stimulus left suggesting that astrocytic glutamate transporters efficiently reduce synaptic glutamate levels at high frequencies of neuronal activation. The same experiments were then repeated 24 h following cortical application of albumin i.e. during epileptogenesis . In contrast to the control experiments DHK had no effect on EPSC amplitude in treated slices right supporting reduced expression of the astrocytic transporter SLC1A2. Repetitive stimulation however resulted in a stronger depression of EPSC amplitude in treated slices as compared to controls.

To study K clearance from the extracellular space K clearance was recorded from control and treated slices 24 h following treatment with albumin by using ISMEs. Slower decay kinetics of K in response to pressure application in BBB treated animals has been reported Ivens et al. 2007 . Here K accumulation during neuronal activation at different frequencies of stimulation was tested. In slices from control animals the increase in K was limited to 25 of baseline levels 

Modeling Reduced K Clearance Results in Frequency Dependent Facilitation of Excitatory Post Synaptic Potentials

To elucidate the possible contribution of astrocytic dysfunction to neuronal excitability a NEURON based model of a post synaptic neuron and an astrocyte was developed. To evaluate the role of increased K accumulation and glutamate accumulation changes to excitatory synaptic currents in the post synaptic neuron were examined see Methods . Excitatory synaptic input was simulated by simultaneous application of glutamate at all 8 distal dendritic processes . The reduction in K clearance was simulated by manipulating a K regulated potassium removal mechanism I while keeping the diffusion component constant. In the absence of neuronal activity reducing K mediated potassium clearance had no effect on resting K and thus had a negligible effect on the rising phase and maximal amplitude of a single excitatory post synaptic potential EPSP . Reducing potassium buffering and consequent increased K accumulation during repetitive stimulation resulted in enhanced EPSP duration due to slower repolarization due to a reduced driving force for K and a slight increase in NMDA mediated current see below and . During repetitive activation the accumulation of K near the dendritic compartment reached a maximum of 8.7 and 16 mM for reduction to 50 and 10 of astrocytic K buffering capacity respectively . K accumulation during repetitive stimulation had a differential effect on AMPA and NMDA mediated currents while the AMPA current showed frequency dependent depression due to receptor desensitization the NMDA component was strongly facilitated due to membrane depolarization . Reducing astrocytic potassium uptake from the extracellular space to 10 of control values resulted in an increase in total charge transfer mediated by the NMDA component of 44 344 and 84 at 10 20 and 100 Hz respectively while the AMPA charge transfer decreased by 5 24 and 15 respectively . Overall there was a frequency dependent increase in EPSP amplitude associated with longer decay time . Repeated simulations with no NMDA conductance G 0 with concomitant increased AMPA conductance to achieve similar depolarization for a single stimulus resulted in a much smaller facilitation compare .

Modeling Reduced Glutamate Clearance Results in Frequency Dependent Depression of Excitatory Post Synaptic Potentials

The NEURON model and simulation paradigms described above were used to test the expected effect of reduced glutamate uptake. The reduction in glutamate uptake was simulated by slowing the transmitter s synaptic decay function. A twofold increase in the glutamate decay time constant resulted in a 48 increase in EPSP amplitude from 25 to 37 mV at a single post synaptic dendrite and a 60 increase in the amplitude of the summated somatic EPSP . While for a single stimulation both AMPA and NMDA components were increased with repetitive activation a marked decrease in the AMPA current due to receptor desensitization see Otis et al. 1996 and a strong facilitation of the NMDA current due to post synaptic depolarization see Mayer et al. 1984 and were measured. Somatic EPSP facilitation ratio of 5to 1EPSP amplitude was maximal at 100 Hz with our initial conditions for glutamate clearance. Inhibiting glutamate clearance did not affect EPSP facilitation at low stimulation frequencies 80 Hz . The decreased facilitation was due to a reduced AMPA current through the desensitized receptors thus keeping the membrane potential below the threshold for NMDA receptor activation. In simulations performed in the absence of NMDA conductance EPSP facilitation was reduced at most stimulation frequencies with only a small 100 Hz .

The simulations showed that while synaptic glutamate levels mainly affected the 1EPSP in the train an activity dependent increase in K mainly enhanced EPSP facilitation in a frequency dependent manner. Since the molecular data indicated a decrease in both potassium and glutamate buffering mechanisms their joint effect on synaptic transmission was simulated. Decreasing the clearance of K led to maximal EPSP facilitation when stimulating at 20 Hz while a concurrent two fold reduction in glutamate uptake shifted the optimal frequency for maximal facilitation to 10 Hz . Concurrent reductions in glutamate and K clearance led to increases in the duration of the 1EPSP which in turn elicited increased and longer NMDA receptor activation per stimulus. The longer EPSPs allowed for a larger charge transfer with longer inter stimulus intervals i.e. reduced frequency thus lowering the optimal stimulation frequency. To assess the sensitivity of the synaptic response during repetitive stimulation at 20 Hz several glutamate decay time constants and varying levels of K uptake was used. We plotted the maximal EPSP amplitude as a function of K demonstrates that increasing synaptic glutamate led to small increases in the maximal EPSP amplitudes for all levels of K . However synaptic facilitation was decreased with reduced glutamate uptake thus synaptic K accumulation to 10 mM was associated with 40 EPSP facilitation upon the 5stimulation under baseline glutamate clearance but with only 22 facilitation when glutamate decay time was doubled .

The simulation data presented above predicted maximal EPSP facilitation at 20 Hz when K clearance is reduced and decreased facilitation at 50 100 Hz when the only change induced is glutamate accumulation in the synaptic cleft. Field potentials in response to stimulation at various frequencies in brain slices during epileptogenesis exposure to albumin in sACSF compared to controls sACSF alone were therefore measured. Comparison of the field potential amplitude and absolute integral during the first five stimuli revealed a significant reduction in both measures only under 100 Hz stimulation amplitude 1.13 0.12 vs. 0.46 0.03 mV 1.44 0.36 vs. 0.47 0.09 mV and area 2.4 0.2 vs. 0.9 0.02 V s 4.4 1.1 vs. 0.5 0.7 V s 1vs. 5stimulus control n 5 and treated n 4 respectively p

Taken together these experiments show that exposure to albumin in vitro induces changes in neuronal excitability and that evoked network activity facilitates and often turns into robust epileptiform discharges upon repetitive stimulation. 10 20 Hz was found to be the most reliable frequency as was also predicted by the K recording data and by the model shown above in the case of reduction in K clearance with or without glutamate accumulation see .

While the present invention has been described with reference to the specific embodiments thereof it should be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted without departing from the true spirit and scope of the invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation material composition of matter process process step or steps to the objective spirit and scope of the present invention. All such modifications are intended to be within the scope of the claims appended hereto.

