---

title: Method and system for signal procesing non-uniformly sampled data
abstract: According to various embodiments, a method is provided for improving data and a system is provided that is configured to perform the method. The method can comprise processing a data signal by using an optical system comprising a signal processor. The method can comprise collecting data generated by the optical system, wherein the data comprises non-uniformly sampled data. The method can comprise performing an interpolation operation on the non-uniformly sampled data using the signal processor, to generate interpolated data. Further, the method can comprise adjusting the data with the interpolated data using the signal processor, to generate improved data. The improved data can be output to a user, for example, by displaying the improved data on a display unit, or by printing out the improved data. According to various embodiments, the data can comprise any desired data, for example, image data. The method can comprise improving the image resolution, improving the image brightness, improving the image contrast, and/or improving the image focus.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08331733&OS=08331733&RS=08331733
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Administrator of the National Aeronautics by and Space Administration
number: 08331733
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090828
---
The invention described herein was made by an employee of the United States Government and may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The present invention relates generally to digital signal processing and more particularly to a more effective manner to interpolate data from non uniformly sampled data.

In the field of signal processing methods are commonly used to transform data between different domains for example from the time domain to the frequency domain. One such equation that can be used to transform data is the Whittaker Shannon Kotelnikov WSK sampling theorem. The theorem describes two processes in signal processing a sampling process in which a continuous time signal is converted into a discrete time signal and a reconstruction process in which the original continuous time signal is recovered from the discrete signal. Reconstruction of the original continuous time signal is an interpolation process that mathematically defines a continuous time signal from the discrete samples and times between the sample instants. During the interpolation process unknown data values are approximated from surrounding known data values.

The WSK sampling theorem corresponds to Nyquist sampled data. The WSK sampling theorem provides a method for reconstructing a continuous time band limited function from a discrete set of data points. The WSK sampling theorem assumes constant intervals between the data points. In other words the theorem assumes a uniform data signal. Such a theorem is disadvantageous however when there is a need to reconstruct a non uniform data signal. A need exists to overcome this deficiency.

According to various embodiments a method for interpolating non uniformly sampled data is provided. The interpolated data can be used to improve the original data. The method can comprise providing an optical system comprising a signal processor. The method can comprise collecting data generated by the optical system wherein the data comprises non uniformly sampled data. The method can comprise performing an interpolation operation on the non uniformly sampled data using the signal processor to generate interpolated data. Further the method can comprise adjusting the data with the interpolated data using the signal processor to generate improved data. The improved data can be output to a user for example by displaying the improved data on a display unit by printing the improved data by adjusting an image based on the improved data or a combination thereof. According to various embodiments the data can comprise any desired data for example image data. The method can comprise improving the image data. For example the method can comprise improving the image resolution the image brightness the image contrast and or the image focus.

According to various embodiments the interpolation operation can transform the data from one domain to another. For example the data can be transformed from the spatial domain to the frequency domain or from the frequency domain to the spatial domain. In some embodiments the interpolation operation can comprise transforming the non uniformly sampled data from the spatial domain to the frequency domain by applying the function

In some embodiments the interpolation operation can comprise transforming the non uniformly sampled data from the frequency domain to the spatial domain by applying the function

According to various embodiments the present teachings provide an optical system that can be configured to perform the method of the present teachings. The optical system can comprise a signal processor and a control unit wherein the control unit is operably linked to the signal processor. The signal processor can be configured to perform the method described herein. The signal processor can be configured to collect image data from the telescope. The image data can comprise at least one of resolution data contrast data brightness data and focus data.

According to various embodiments the Whittaker Shannon Kotelnikov WSK sampling theorem can be used as a starting point for reconstructing a continuous band limited function from a discrete set of sample points. Various references describe the WSK sampling theorem for example E. T. Whittaker On the Functions which are Represented by the Expansions of the Interpolation Theory Proc. Royal Soc. Edinburgh Sec. A Vol. 35 pp. 181 194 1915 C. E. Shannon Communication in the presence of noise Proc. Institute of Radio Engineers vol. 37 1 pp. 10 21 1949 V. A. Kotelnikov On the capacity of the either and of cables in electrical communication. Procs. Of the 1All Union Conference on technological reconstruction of the communications sector and low current engineering Moscow 1933 A. J. Jerri The Shannon Sampling Theorem Its Various Extensions and Applications A Tutorial review IEEE Comm. Vol. 65 11 pp. 1565 1596 1977 H. D. Luke The origins of the sampling theorem IEEE comm. Vol. 37 4 pp. 106 108 1999 and M. Unser Sampling 50 Years After Shannon IEEE Comm. Vol. 99 4 pp. 569 587 all of which are incorporated herein in their entireties by reference. The result can be derived using a convolution theorem in combination with various mathematical computing software for example the comb x and rect x functions of MATLAB available from Mathworks Inc. Natick Mass. The sampling theorem can be used to sample optical fields as described in J. W. Goodman Introduction to Fourier Optics 2ed. McGraw Hill New York N.Y. 1996 pp. 23 26 and D. A. Aronstein Whittacker Shannon Interpolation of Electric Fields and Point Spread Functions private communication Apr. 6 2007 both of which are incorporated herein in their entireties by reference.

As is known in the art the WSK sampling theorem assumes a continuous uniformly sampled data signal. Because of this the WSK sampling theorem is not ideal for use with a non uniformly sampled data signal. Described herein is a derivation of the sampling theorem that emphasizes two assumptions of the theorem explicitly. This derivation achieves a preferred method for interpolating non uniformly sampled data signals. The theorem can be expressed in terms of two fundamental length scales that are derived from these assumptions. The result can be more general than what is usually reported and contains the WSK form as a special case corresponding to Nyquist sampled data. In some embodiments the preferred basis set for interpolation can be found by varying the frequency component of the basis functions in an optimal way. This observation can give a generalization of the WSK result to situations where the data sampling interval is non uniform for example as is described J. L. Yen On nonuniform sampling of band limited signals IRE Trans. Circ. Theory CT 3 251 257 1956 which is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference.

According to various embodiments a method for interpolating non uniformly sampled data is provided. The interpolated data can be used to improve original data. The method can comprise providing an optical system comprising a signal processor. The method can comprise collecting data generated by the optical system wherein the data comprises non uniformly sampled data. The method can comprise performing an interpolation operation on the non uniformly sampled data using the signal processor to generate interpolated data. In some embodiments the method can comprise adjusting the data with the interpolated data using the signal processor to generate improved data. The improved data can be output to a user for example by displaying the improved data on a display unit by printing the improved data by adjusting an image based on the improved data by a combination thereof or the like. According to various embodiments the data can comprise any desired data for example image data. The method can comprise improving the image data. For example the method can comprise improving the image resolution the image brightness the image contrast and or the image focus.

According to various embodiments the interpolation operation can transform the data from one domain to another. For example the data can be transformed from the spatial domain to the frequency domain or from the frequency domain to the spatial domain. The present teachings also provide an optical system that can be configured to perform the method of the present teachings. The optical system can comprise a signal processor and a control unit where the control unit is operably linked to the signal processor. The signal processor can be configured to perform the method described herein. In some embodiments the signal processor can be configured to collect image data from a telescope. The image data can comprise at least one of resolution data contrast data brightness data and focus data.

According to various embodiments the Fourier transform can be defined as and its inverse can be represented as 

The sampling theorem can be based on three conditions A B and C regarding the Fourier transform. The conditions A B and C can be 

According to various embodiments the band limited functions shown in condition A and condition B can imply two fundamental length scales x 1 vand x 1 v where x n x are the data sample points. These length scales or equivalently their associated frequency intervals can be kept independent and play a fundamental role in the derivation of the sampling theorem. According to various embodiments condition C does not hold for periodic functions for example sin x . To overcome this the generalized Fourier transform for functions of slow growth can be used. Discussion on the generalized Fourier transform can be found in H. P. Hsu Applied Fourier Analysis Harcourt Brace New York N.Y. 1984 pp. 98 104 which is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference. Parseval s theorem can be used to construct the Fourier transform for functions not satisfying condition C .

According to various embodiments illustrates the band limited condition A and condition B in the frequency domain. In the Fourier transform of a band limited sampled function is represented by periodic extension of the sampling interval. Alternatively the vordinate of can be shifted to the origin as in . This version of the band limited sampled function further illustrates the construction of condition B by periodic extension over the sampling frequency v.

As shown in condition B allows the Fourier transform to be constructed as a periodic function by periodic extension of the sampling frequency. Condition B does not have to be taken as a fundamental property of the sampled Fourier transform but can be enforced by construction for example as 

According to various embodiments the derivation of the sampling theorem in the spatial domain can provide a method for reconstructing a continuous band limited function in terms of the frequency bandwidth vand the sampling interval x. As illustrated in the derivation is valid when 

According to various embodiments and as described above the sampling theorem can be derived in the spatial domain by placing restrictions on a function s Fourier transform and can provide a method for reconstructing a continuous x from its sampled values x . In some embodiments the modulus of the Fourier transform F v can be measured rather than the x so it is of equal interest to reconstruct F v in the frequency domain from its sampled values using a formula akin to the derivation of the sampling theorem in the spatial domain. Analogous with condition A for the spatial domain x can be assumed to be spatially limited 0 for where x denotes a spatially limited version of x . In some embodiments x is not spatially limited but x can be constructed using an appropriate filtering or windowing operation as described in H. J. Weaver Applications of Discrete and Continuous Fourier Analysis Krieger Publishing Company Malabar FI. 1992 pp. 134 147 which is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference.

In some embodiments it is possible to construct a periodic function x from x by periodic extension over the function spatial period x for example for and 0 1 2 . . . A spatially limited and periodic representation of f x can be represented by Fourier series as 

Given the definition of the Fourier transfer and its inverse it is possible to choose what is labeled as the spatial time or Fourier frequency domain. For example the variables in either domain can arbitrarily be x and v or v and x as long as the variables are constant with the given choice and definitions of the Fourier transform and its inverse. Thus the derivation of the sampling theorem in the frequency domain can be expected but its derivation can be instructive in that the spatial limit xcan be seen as the corollary to the band limit v and the data sampling intervals x and x can be the corollaries to their replicated periods v and X in the conjugate domains respectively.

Several corollary results will be discussed in respect to the spatial domain. According to various embodiments analogous expressions can be derived in the Fourier domain and in the arbitrary domain using the derivation of the sampling theorem described herein.

In some embodiments an alternative statement of the hand limited function F v F v nv can be examined by considering the limit of the continuous variable x to the discrete case x x. In one example the number of interpolation points can match the number of data samples. The sin c term in the sampling theorem derivation can then be represented as sin 2 sin 2 sin 2 and using the property of the Dirac delta function that ax x a the limit can be represented as 

In some embodiments the sin c x function interpolator can be an alternative statement of the main assumption of the band limited function of the periodicity of the Fourier transform. The Fourier transform of the sin c x function interpolator can lead to the band limited function which in fact can be a starting assumption when performing the derivation of the sampling theorem.

According to various embodiments the infinite sum in the sampling theorem can be substituted with a finite number of data samples N. The data can be windowed or truncated which can lead to spectral leakage in the spatial domain or aliasing in the Fourier domain. Spectral leakage and aliasing of signals can be an undesirable effect otherwise known as Gibbs phenomena which is described in H. Nyquist Certain topics in telegraph transmission theory Trans. AIEE vol. 47 pp. 617 644 1928 which is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference. The method of the present teachings can be effective in overcoming or resolving the undesirable effects produced by the Gibbs phenomena.

According to various embodiments the numerical examples provided herein can use a finite representation such that for N data sample points the derivation of the sampling theorem can be represented as 

According to various embodiments the continuous variable x the interpolation points can be finite for example there can be M total interpolation points. In some embodiments M N M N or M

where J 1. Therefore for a given choice off there will be 1 1 interpolation points for x and thus by analogy with the finite representation we can specify a free index for the interpolation points 

As mentioned above the sampling theorem in the spatial domain can provide a method for reconstructing a band limited function in terms of the fundamental length scales vand x. x can be expressed as a weighted sum over the sin c x basis functions. In some embodiments in the continuum limit the band limited function can become a convolution integral sin sin The convolution integral can be viewed as an implication of the assumptions in conditions A B and C. In continuum form the implications of these assumptions can be examined for additional insight into their analytic structure. The continuum limit of the delta function can be represented as 

To further emphasize the convolution form the Fourier transform of the convolution integral can show that in the frequency domain the integral can be used to force a finite interval on the Fourier transform of the function and thus a band limit on x 2 

According to various embodiments the convolution integral can be a reincarnation of the band limited assumption and the Fourier transform of the convolution integral can be the Fourier domain representation of condition A . Algebraic examples of the convolution integral can be for example x sin c x which can be represented as 

According to various embodiments Fourier s Integral Theorem can provide insight on the convolution form of the convolution integral 

In some embodiments x can be a superposition of displaced and weighted sin c u functions therefore cancellation of the subsidiary side lobes at the base of the sin c u can improve interpolation results. To further elaborate consider an example where Q 4 and for convenience what is produced is 4 2 1 8 The WSK result corresponds to 1 and the two terms of this example terms n 20 n 1 21 and N 41 are plotted on a graph and shown in where it seen that the zeros of the sin c u basis functions correspond to the data sampling interval x. This means that when shifting the neighboring basis functions over by one data unit to the next the side lobe maxima of the n th basis function corresponds approximately to the side lobe minima of the n 1 th basis function. Therefore aside from the interpolated value of x at about n x the remaining contribution to the sum of the two basis functions approximately cancels because the side lobes are out of phase. The sum of the two basis functions can be for example as shown in where the rapid decay of the side lobes is apparent.

According to various embodiments by contrast to the WSK result with 1 the WSK Q result has when Q 4. In this case the zeros of the sin c u functions are located 2k apart for k given when

 u n ku n k for k 1 2 3 . . . therefore the sin c u zeros go through every other data point. As a result when shifting the basis function over by one data unit in the interpolation sum the basis function side lobes can be approximately in phase and little cancellation can occur in the sum. The situation is illustrated in along with the sum of the two basic functions. As a result the WSK Q result can provide a more efficient method of interpolating the non uniformly sampled data. The WSK Q result can be optimal in cases where the data sampling interval is non constant and an optimal superposition of the various neighboring basis function can be achieved by varying the coefficient in a way that minimizes the subsidiary side lobes.

According to various embodiments optimally out of phase describes choices of that minimize ringing in the subsidiary side lobes because in such cases a better overall interpolation result is obtained. The summation shown in is of interest from another standpoint it appears similar in form to the two lobed Lanczos windowed sin c function 

In some embodiments shifting the sin c u basis functions so that their zeros coincide can achieve optimal shifting of the sin c u basis functions for u with 1. For some values of x this trade is give and take because some ringing in the sum is unavoidable because the locations of the maxima of sin c u vary non linearly with x. This is because the maxima are solutions to the transcendental equation tan 0. For

Other embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the present specification and practice of various embodiments disclosed herein. It is intended that the present specification and examples be considered as exemplary only.

