---

title: Electrically conducting porphyrin and porphyrin-fullerene electropolymers
abstract: 

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08669359&OS=08669359&RS=08669359
owner: Arizona Board of Regents for and on behalf of Arizona State University
number: 08669359
owner_city: Scottsdale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090901
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 120 from International Application No. PCT US2008 055545 filed Feb. 29 2008 which claimed priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e 1 from U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 892 757 filed Mar. 2 2007. Both priority applications are incorporated herein in their entirety.

The invention was made with government support under Grant No. DE FG02 03ER15393 awarded by United States Department of Energy. The government has certain rights in the invention.

This description relates to electropolymerizable monomers with fullerene and porphyrin subunits polymers produced by electrooxidation of the monomers and use of the polymers in photovoltaic devices.

One of the major applications of conducting polymers is as a component of an organic or bulk heterojunction photovoltaic cell for making electricity from sunlight. Organic solar cells generally include a layer of transparent indium tin oxide ITO on glass a layer of hole conducting polymer mixed with an organic or inorganic electron conducting phase and a third layer of a low work function metal such as aluminum. Light is absorbed by the polymer in the photovoltaic cell the resulting excitation then migrates to a phase boundary with the electron conducting phase and an electron is injected from the polymer. The electrons migrate to the metal through the electron conducting phase and holes migrate to the ITO via the polymer generating a photocurrent.

Conducting polymers for use in organic light emitting diodes OLEDs and organic conductors wires some of which may be electropolymerized have been reported. These polymers include for example polyacetylenes polyphenyleneethynylenes PPE polyphenylenevinylenes PPV polythiophenes and polyanilines. The structural variations of these polymers are typically changes in the organic substituent groups attached to the basic polymer backbone. The substituents can change the electrical properties of the polymer its processing and mechanical properties and its compatibility interfacing with other materials. Typically it is possible to write delocalized structures for these polymers that allow conductivity through the polymer backbone. Often some type of doping is required to achieve good conductivity.

Such organic photovoltaic cells have very low efficiencies i.e. less than about 5 due to incomplete conversion of excitons to charge separation recombination of electrons and holes within the organic layer or at the electrodes and a lack of efficient light absorption throughout the solar spectral range. The lack of electron acceptors covalently bonded to the polymer strands can lead to inefficient conversion of excitons to charge separation rapid charge recombination high concentrations of carriers at interface areas leading to increased recombination the need to prepare bicontinuous phases of polymer and fullerene or other electron carriers which adds to processing requirements and the need to use excessive amounts of the electron transport phase.

Each Ris independently H alkyl or alkenyl. Ris optionally substituted with one or more groups which are each independently R or any two Ron adjacent carbon atoms form a fused phenyl group which is optionally substituted by one or more R groups.

Each Ris independently H alkyl aryl or heteroaryl. The alkyl or heteroaryl is optionally substituted with one or more R groups or one or more Rgroups and the aryl is optionally substituted with one or more R groups.

Each Ris independently halogen alkyl aryl cycloalkyl heterocyclyl or heteroaryl. Each Ris optionally substituted with one or more R groups and n is 0 1 2 3 or 4.

Each R is independently halogen alkyl aryl cycloalkyl heterocyclyl heteroaryl OR SR N R C O R C O OR C O N R OC O R OC O OR OC O N R N R C O R N R C O OR N R C O N R S O R S O N R or S O OR.

Each R is independently halogen alkyl aryl cycloalkyl heterocyclyl heteroaryl SR N R C O R C O OR C O N R OC O R OC O OR OC O N R N R C O R N R C O OR R C O N R S O R S O N R S O OR or R.

Ris L cycloalkyl or L heterocyclyl. The cycloalkyl and heterocyclyl are optionally substituted with Rgroups.

Each Ris independently R or two Rgroups on adjacent carbon atoms form a fused aryl heteroaryl heterocyclyl cycloalkyl or fullerenyl .

L is a bond L L alkyl or L alkyl L and Lis C O O OC O N R C O C O N R O S N R OC O O OC O N R N R C O O or N R C O N R .

Ris H halogen alkyl aryl cycloalkyl heterocyclyl heteroaryl OR SR N R C O R C O OR C O N R OC O R OC O OR OC O N R N R C O R N R C O OR N R C O N R S O R S O N R S O OR or R.

In embodiments of formulas IV V the two Rgroups on adjacent carbon atoms can form a fused fullerenyl group. When the two Rgroups on adjacent carbon atoms form a fused Cfullerenyl group formula IV is referred to as formula VIII and formula V is referred to as formula IX .

In some implementations the compound of formulas I IX is complexed to a metal ion. The metal ion can be an ion of Na Li K Zn Cd Cu Co Ni Ru Rh Hg Pd Pt Mg Ca Fe Mn Cr Al Ga In V Sn or Pb.

In another aspect a polymer includes porphyrin monomers and the porphyrin monomers form the backbone of the polymer.

and each monomer is bonded to at least one other monomer through a Q D bond. All other substituents are as described above.

In an embodiment of formula XII Ris heterocyclyl substituted with two Rgroups. When the two Rgroups on adjacent carbon atoms form a fused fullerenyl group such polymers are referred to as formula XIII . When the two Rgroups on adjacent carbon atoms form a fused Cfullerenyl group such polymers are referred to as formula XIV .

In some implementations of formulas X XIV p is 0 1 2 or 3 and each R is independently halogen or alkyl.

In some embodiments of formulas X XIV m is an integer greater than 2 and less than 10 000 greater than 2 and less than 1000 greater than 2 and less than 500 greater than 2 and less than 250 or greater than 2 and less than 100.

In some implementations one or more monomer units of the polymer in formulas X XIV is complexed to a metal ion. In some embodiments the metal ion is an ion of Na Li K Zn Cd Cu Co Ni Ru Rh Hg Pd Pt Mg Ca Fe Mn Cr Al Ga In V Sn or Pb.

each Ris H or alkyl or both Rtaken together with the oxygen atoms to which they are attached form a heterocyclic group 

In some implementations the halogenating agent is N bromosuccinimide N chlorosuccinimide or N iodosuccinimide. In some embodiments X is iodo bromo or chloro.

In some embodiments the palladium catalyst is a Pd 0 or Pd II catalyst. The Pd 0 catalyst can be for example palladium metal Pd PPh Pd dba and a phosphine ligand e.g. t BuP t BuPMe PPh PCy etc. or Pd t BuP . The Pd II catalyst can be for example Pd OAc PdCl PPh PdCl dppe PdCl dppp or PdCl dppf .

In some embodiments the base is sodium fluoride potassium fluoride sodium hydroxide potassium hydroxide potassium carbonate sodium carbonate cesium carbonate potassium phosphate sodium methoxide sodium ethoxide sodium isopropoxide sodium tert butoxide potassium methoxide potassium ethoxide potassium isopropoxide or potassium tert butoxide.

In one aspect a method of synthesizing a polymer of one or more compounds of formula XX includes preparing a solution of one or more compounds of formula XX in a solvent and providing an electrical potential to the solution.

In some implementations the electrical potential is a constant oxidizing potential. The electrical potential can be cycled from about 1.0 V to 2.0 V from about 0.5 V to 1.75 V or from about 0.0 V to 1.50 V.

The solvent can be an alkyl nitrile aryl nitrile chlorinated hydrocarbon alkyl ether or any mixture thereof. In some cases the solvent is acetonitrile diethyl carbonate dimethyl carbonate 1 3 dioxolane methyl acetate ethyl acetate 1 methyl 2 pyrrolidinone tetrahydrofuran propylene carbonate ethylene carbonate dichloromethane N N dimethylformamide dimethylsulfoxide N N dimethylacetamide or a mixture thereof.

In some cases the solution includes an electrolyte. The electrolyte can be a tetrafluoroborate hexafluorophosphate halide or perchlorate salt. The tetrafluoroborate hexafluorophosphate halide or perchlorate salt preferably has a tetraalkylammonium or alkali metal cation. Examples of electrolytes include but are not limited to lithium perchlorate tetrabutylammonium tetrafluoroborate or tetrabutylammonium hexafluorophosphate.

In some implementations a method of synthesizing a polymer of one or more compounds of formula XX includes providing a working electrode a counter electrode and optionally a reference electrode. The working electrode can be for example indium tin oxide ITO conducting glass fluorinated tin oxide FTO conducting glass glassy carbon platinum gold silver or other non reactive metals. The counter electrode may be optionally separated from the solution with a glass frit or similar barrier. The counter electrode can include noble metals or graphite. For example a counter electrode can include silver wire or platinum wire. In some cases a reference electrode is for example a standard hydrogen electrode E 0.000V saturated calomel electrode SCE E 0.247V copper copper II sulfate electrode E 0.318V or silver chloride electrode Ag AgCl E 0.225V saturated .

One aspect includes a polymer prepared according to the any of the methods described above. In some cases the polymer is prepared from two or more different monomers of formula XX .

Another aspect includes a photovoltaic device with a conductive substrate and a polymer described above and or prepared according to the any of the methods described above. The polymer can be electropolymerized in one or more layers on the conductive substrate. The conductive substrate can be an electrode of the photovoltaic device. In some implementations the conductive substrate is indium tin oxide conducting glass ITO fluorinated tin oxide conducting glass FTO glassy carbon platinum gold silver or other non reactive metal. In certain implementations the photovoltaic device is a solid film solar cell or a redox solution containing solar cell.

In one aspect a method of forming a metal complex of the compound of any one of formulas I IX includes the steps of contacting the compound with a metal salt such as an acetate or halide salt. The acetate salt can be for example zinc acetate cobalt acetate iron acetate or copper acetate. The halide salt can be for example zinc chloride cobalt chloride iron chloride or copper chloride.

In another aspect a method of forming a polymer of any one of formulas X XII in which one or more of the monomer units is complexed to a metal ion includes contacting the polymer with a metal salt such as an acetate or halide salt. The acetate salt can be for example zinc acetate cobalt acetate iron acetate or copper acetate. The halide salt can be for example zinc chloride cobalt chloride iron chloride or copper chloride.

Porphyrin electropolymers described herein provide efficient hole conduction through the conducting polymer that contains the porphyrin macrocycle in its backbone. Porphyrin fullerene electropolymers and other polymers made from molecular dyad monomers inhibit incomplete conversion of excitons to charge separation due to recombination during exciton migration by carrying out charge separation at the site of light absorption. The recombination of charges is thought to be inhibited due to the inherently long lifetime of porphyrin fullerene charge separation thus reducing the formation of cut off islands of conducting phases providing an electron blocking hole transport layer attached to a transparent electrode and eliminating the concentration of charges at a severely limited amount of interface between conducting phases. In addition a mechanism is provided via substitution on the porphyrin for tuning the absorption spectrum of the polymer to better utilize the solar spectrum.

Porphyrin and porphyrin fullerene electropolymers described herein are electrically conducting and absorb light strongly in the UV and visible spectral regions. These polymers are readily prepared with or without metal atoms in each porphyrin unit and can be used as materials in solar photovoltaic cells such as solid film solar cells and redox solution containing solar cells based on organic materials. Embodiments of photovoltaic devices with the described electropolymers are advantageously low cost and easy to fabricate and process. The polymers can be fabricated on flexible materials. They have a wide acceptance angle for light and provide high efficiency conversion of light to electrical power in the absence of rare chemical elements.

Synthesis of porphyrin monomers and metal complexes thereof electropolymerization of these monomers to form electrically conducting polymers with a porphyrin macrocycle as part of the polymer backbone and uses of these materials are described herein. Porphyrin macrocycles used to form electropolymers described herein can include aryl ring s at porphyrin meso position s bearing an amino group in position 4 relative to the porphyrin macrocycle and at least one unsubstituted hydrogen bearing meso position with the 10 15 and or 20 relationship to the aryl ring bearing the amino group. As an example structure 1 shows a metal complex of a standard porphyrin ring and a 5 15 relationship of the substituent free and aminophenyl bearing meso positions. Compound 2 is a non fullerene containing embodiment of structure 1 and compound 3 is a fullerene containing embodiment of structure 1. In some embodiments the porphyrin is a free base porphyrin.

The term alkenyl as used herein means a straight or branched chain hydrocarbon containing at least one carbon carbon double bond formed by the removal of two hydrogens. Representative examples of alkenyl include but are not limited to ethenyl 2 propenyl 2 methyl 2 propenyl 3 butenyl 4 pentenyl 5 hexenyl 2 heptenyl 2 methyl 1 heptenyl and 3 decenyl.

The term alkyl as used herein means a straight or branched chain hydrocarbon. Representative examples of alkyl include but are not limited to methyl ethyl n propyl iso propyl n butyl sec butyl iso butyl tert butyl n pentyl isopentyl neopentyl n hexyl 3 methylhexyl 2 2 dimethylpentyl 2 3 dimethylpentyl n heptyl n octyl n nonyl and n decyl. In some embodiments an alkyl group is a C Calkyl group.

The term aryl as used herein means phenyl or a bicyclic aryl or a tricyclic aryl. The bicyclic aryl is naphthyl or a phenyl fused to a cycloalkyl or a phenyl fused to a cycloalkenyl. The bicyclic aryl is attached to the parent molecular moiety through any carbon atom contained within the bicyclic aryl. Representative examples of the bicyclic aryl include but are not limited to dihydroindenyl indenyl naphthyl dihydronaphthalenyl and tetrahydronaphthalenyl. The tricyclic aryl is anthracene or phenanthrene or a bicyclic aryl fused to a cycloalkyl or a bicyclic aryl fused to a cycloalkenyl or a bicyclic aryl fused to a phenyl. The tricyclic aryl is attached to the parent molecular moiety through any carbon atom contained within the tricyclic aryl. Representative examples of tricyclic aryl ring include but are not limited to azulenyl dihydroanthracenyl fluorenyl and tetrahydrophenanthrenyl.

The term cycloalkyl as used herein means a monocyclic bicyclic or tricyclic ring system. Monocyclic ring systems are exemplified by a saturated cyclic hydrocarbon group containing from 3 to 8 carbon atoms. Examples of monocyclic ring systems include cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl cycloheptyl and cyclooctyl. Bicyclic ring systems are exemplified by a bridged monocyclic ring system in which two non adjacent carbon atoms of the monocyclic ring are linked by an alkylene bridge of between one and three additional carbon atoms. Representative examples of bicyclic ring systems include but are not limited to bicyclo 3.1.1 heptane bicyclo 2.2.1 heptane bicyclo 2.2.2 octane bicyclo 3.2.2 nonane bicyclo 3.3.1 nonane and bicyclo 4.2.1 nonane. Tricyclic ring systems are exemplified by a bicyclic ring system in which two non adjacent carbon atoms of the bicyclic ring are linked by a bond or an alkylene bridge of between one and three carbon atoms. Representative examples of tricyclic ring systems include but are not limited to tricyclo 3.3.1.0 nonane and tricyclo 3.3.1.1 decane adamantane .

The term haloalkyl as used herein means at least one halogen as defined herein appended to the parent molecular moiety through an alkyl group as defined herein. Representative examples of haloalkyl include but are not limited to chloromethyl 2 fluoroethyl trifluoromethyl pentafluoroethyl and 2 chloro 3 fluoropentyl.

The term heteroaryl as used herein means a monocyclic heteroaryl or a bicyclic heteroaryl. The monocyclic heteroaryl is a 5 or 6 membered ring. The 5 membered ring consists of two double bonds and one two three or four nitrogen atoms and optionally one oxygen or sulfur atom. The 6 membered ring consists of three double bonds and one two three or four nitrogen atoms. The 5 or 6 membered heteroaryl is connected to the parent molecular moiety through any carbon atom or any nitrogen atom contained within the heteroaryl. Representative examples of monocyclic heteroaryl include but are not limited to furyl imidazolyl isoxazolyl isothiazolyl oxadiazolyl oxazolyl pyridinyl pyridazinyl pyrimidinyl pyrazinyl pyrazolyl pyrrolyl tetrazolyl thiadiazolyl thiazolyl thienyl triazolyl and triazinyl. The bicyclic heteroaryl consists of a monocyclic heteroaryl fused to a phenyl or a monocyclic heteroaryl fused to a cycloalkyl or a monocyclic heteroaryl fused to a cycloalkenyl or a monocyclic heteroaryl fused to a monocyclic heteroaryl. The bicyclic heteroaryl is connected to the parent molecular moiety through any carbon atom or any nitrogen atom contained within the bicyclic heteroaryl. Representative examples of bicyclic heteroaryl include but are not limited to benzimidazolyl benzofuranyl benzothienyl benzoxadiazolyl cinnolinyl dihydroquinolinyl dihydroisoquinolinyl furopyridinyl indazolyl indolyl isoquinolinyl naphthyridinyl quinolinyl tetrahydroquinolinyl and thienopyridinyl.

The term heterocyclyl as used herein means a monocyclic heterocycle or a bicyclic heterocycle or a tricyclic heterocycle. The monocyclic heterocycle is a 3 4 5 6 or 7 membered ring containing at least one heteroatom independently selected from the group consisting of O N and S. The 3 or 4 membered ring contains 1 heteroatom selected from the group consisting of O N and S. The 5 membered ring contains zero or one double bond and one two or three heteroatoms selected from the group consisting of O N and S. The 6 or 7 membered ring contains zero one or two double bonds and one two or three heteroatoms selected from the group consisting of O N and S. The monocyclic heterocycle is connected to the parent molecular moiety through any carbon atom or any nitrogen atom contained within the monocyclic heterocycle. Representative examples of monocyclic heterocycles include but are not limited to azetidinyl azepanyl aziridinyl diazepanyl 1 3 dioxanyl 1 3 dioxolanyl 1 3 dithiolanyl 1 3 dithianyl imidazolinyl imidazolidinyl isothiazolinyl isothiazolidinyl isoxazolinyl isoxazolidinyl morpholinyl oxadiazolinyl oxadiazolidinyl oxazolinyl oxazolidinyl piperazinyl piperidinyl pyranyl pyrazolinyl pyrazolidinyl pyrrolinyl pyrrolidinyl tetrahydrofuranyl tetrahydrothienyl thiadiazolinyl thiadiazolidinyl thiazolinyl thiazolidinyl thiomorpholinyl 1 1 dioxidothiomorpholinyl thiomorpholine sulfone thiopyranyl and trithianyl. The bicyclic heterocycle is a monocyclic heterocycle fused to a phenyl group or a monocyclic heterocycle fused to a cycloalkyl or a monocyclic heterocycle fused to a cycloalkenyl or a monocyclic heterocycle fused to a monocyclic heterocycle or a monocyclic heterocycle fused to a monocyclic heteroaryl. The bicyclic heterocycle is connected to the parent molecular moiety through any carbon atom or any nitrogen atom contained within the bicyclic heterocycle. Representative examples of bicyclic heterocycle include but are not limited to 1 3 benzodioxolyl 1 3 benzodithiolyl 2 3 dihydro 1 4 benzodioxinyl 2 3 dihydro 1 benzofuranyl 2 3 dihydro 1 benzothienyl 2 3 dihydro 1H indolyl and 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroquinolinyl. The tricyclic heterocycle is a bicyclic heterocycle fused to a phenyl or a bicyclic heterocycle fused to a cycloalkyl or a bicyclic heterocycle fused to a cycloalkenyl or a bicyclic heterocycle fused to a monocyclic heterocycle or a bicyclic heterocycle fused to a monocyclic heteroaryl. The tricyclic heterocycle is connected to the parent molecular moiety through any carbon atom or any nitrogen atom contained within the tricyclic heterocycle. Representative examples of tricyclic heterocycle include but are not limited to 2 3 4 4a 9 9a hexahydro 1H carbazolyl 5a 6 7 8 9 9a hexahydrodibenzo b d furanyl and 5a 6 7 8 9 9a hexahydrodibenzo b d thienyl.

The term fused as used herein means that the group is connected to the parent molecular moiety by two chemical bonds connecting adjacent atoms of the parent moiety and adjacent atoms of the fused group. For example a fused phenyl group attached to a furanyl parent moiety forms a benzofuranyl group i.e. a fused phenyl group is also known as a benzo group to those skilled in the art.

Each R is independently halogen alkyl aryl cycloalkyl heterocyclyl heteroaryl OR SR N R C O R C O OR C O N R OC O R OC O OR OC O N R N R C O R N R C O OR N R C O N R S O R S O N R or S O OR.

Each R is independently halogen alkyl aryl cycloalkyl heterocyclyl heteroaryl SR N R C O R C O OR C O N R OC O R OC O OR OC O N R N R C O R N R C O OR R C O N R S O R S O N R S O OR or R.

Ris L cycloalkyl or L heterocyclyl. The cycloalkyl and heterocyclyl are optionally substituted with Rgroups.

Each Ris independently R or two Rgroups on adjacent carbon atoms form a fused aryl heteroaryl heterocyclyl cycloalkyl or fullerenyl .

L is a bond L L alkyl or L alkyl L and Lis C O O OC O N R C O C O N R O S N R OC O O OC O N R N R C O O or N R C O N R .

Ris H halogen alkyl aryl cycloalkyl heterocyclyl heteroaryl OR SR N R C O R C O OR C O N R OC O R OC O OR OC O N R N R C O R N R C O OR N R C O N R S O R S O N R S O OR or R.

In embodiments of formulas IV V the two Rgroups on adjacent carbon atoms can form a fused fullerenyl group e.g. a fused C Cfullerenyl group . When the two Rgroups on adjacent carbon atoms form a fused Cfullerenyl group formula IV is referred to as formula VIII and formula V is referred to as formula IX .

In some implementations the compound of formulas I IX is complexed to a metal ion. The metal ion can be an ion of Na Li K Zn Cd Cu Co Ni Ru Rh Hg Pd Pt Mg Ca Fe Mn Cr Al Ga In V Sn or Pb.

The compounds and processes described herein will be better understood in connection with the following synthetic schemes which illustrate the methods by which such compounds may be prepared. Starting materials can be obtained from commercial sources or prepared by methods known to those of ordinary skill in the art.

The reactions are performed in a solvent appropriate to the reagents and materials employed and suitable for the transformations being effected. It will be understood by those skilled in the art of organic synthesis that the functionality present on the molecule should be consistent with the transformations proposed. This will sometimes require a judgment to modify the order of the synthetic steps or to select one particular process scheme over another in order to obtain a desired compound.

It will also be recognized that a factor in the planning of any synthetic route in this field is the judicious choice of the protecting group used for protection of the reactive functional groups present in the compounds described herein.

each Ris H or alkyl or both Rtaken together with the oxygen atoms to which they are attached form a heterocyclic group 

In some implementations the halogenating agent is N bromosuccinimide N chlorosuccinimide or N iodosuccinimide. In some embodiments X is iodo bromo or chloro.

In some embodiments the palladium catalyst is a Pd 0 or Pd II catalyst. The Pd 0 catalyst can be for example palladium metal Pd PPh Pd dba and a phosphine ligand e.g. t BuP t BuPMe PPh PCy etc. or Pd t BuP . The Pd II catalyst can be for example Pd OAc PdCl PPh PdCl dppe PdCl dppp or PdCl dppf .

In some embodiments the base is sodium fluoride potassium fluoride sodium hydroxide potassium hydroxide potassium carbonate sodium carbonate cesium carbonate potassium phosphate sodium methoxide sodium ethoxide sodium isopropoxide sodium tert butoxide potassium methoxide potassium ethoxide potassium isopropoxide or potassium tert butoxide.

Scheme 1 illustrates a method of synthesizing the free base porphyrin corresponding to compound 2 10 4 aminophenyl 5 15 bis 2 4 6 trimethylphenyl porphyrin . Reactions shown in Scheme 1 are described in more detail in the Examples below. Suzuki coupling is performed to bind a protected aminophenyl group to the meso position of compound 6. Compounds 7 10 4 acetamidophenyl 5 15 bis 2 4 6 trimethylphenyl porphyrin and 8 10 4 tert butylphenylcarbamate 5 15 bis 2 4 6 trimethylphenyl porphyrin have acetyl and tert butyloxycarbonyl Boc protecting groups respectively. The protecting groups are removed in the presence of an acid such as for example hydrochloric acid and or trifluoroacetic acid to form compound 2 free base .

Scheme 2 illustrates a method of synthesizing the free base porphyrin corresponding to compound 3. Reactions shown in Scheme 2 are described in more detail in the Examples below. The methyl ester in compound 9 5 4 carboxymethyl phenyl 15 2 4 6 trimethylphenyl porphyrin is replaced with a formyl group to form compound 10 5 4 formylphenyl 15 2 4 6 trimethylphenyl porphyrin . After halogenation of compound 10 to form compound 11 10 bromo 5 4 formylphenyl 15 2 4 6 trimethylphenyl porphyrin Suzuki coupling is used to bind an aminophenyl group protected with Boc to the meso position of compound 11 to form compound 12 5 4 formylphenyl 10 4 tert butylphenylcarbamate 15 2 4 6 trimethylphenyl porphyrin . Sarcosine and Care reacted with compound 12 to form compound 13 P Cdyad and the protecting group is removed to form compound 3 free base .

Monomers of formulas I IX can be electropolymerized to form porphyrin electropolymers. The electropolymerization process described herein includes dissolving a monomer and a salt that will form a supporting electrolyte in a suitable solvent. A conducting working electrode such as for example indium tin oxide transparent conducting glass fluorinated tin oxide conducting glass platinum gold other non reactive metals glassy carbon or carbon nanotube mat is immersed in the solution. A counter electrode is placed in the cell and may be separated from the solution using a glass frit or similar barrier. A counter electrode can include graphite or noble metals such as for example silver wire or platinum wire. A third reference electrode may also be included if desired. In some cases a reference electrode is for example a standard hydrogen electrode E 0.000 V saturated calomel electrode SCE E 0.247 V copper copper II sulfate electrode E 0.318 V or silver chloride electrode Ag AgCl E 0.225 V saturated .

Electrical voltage is applied between the working and counter electrodes and the voltage is swept back and forth over a suitable range of potentials as in cyclic voltammetry. During each sweep a new layer of polymer is formed on the electrode. Electropolymerization may also be carried out by maintaining the potential at a suitable value. In some implementations the electrical potential is a constant oxidizing potential. The electrical potential can be cycled from about 1.0 V to 2.0 V from about 0.5 V to 1.75 V or from about 0.0 V to 1.50 V.

The solvent can be an alkyl nitrile aryl nitrile chlorinated hydrocarbon alkyl ether or any mixture thereof. In some cases the solvent is acetonitrile diethyl carbonate dimethyl carbonate 1 3 dioxolane methyl acetate ethyl acetate 1 methyl 2 pyrrolidinone tetrahydrofuran propylene carbonate ethylene carbonate dichloromethane N N dimethylformamide dimethylsulfoxide N N dimethylacetamide or a mixture thereof.

The electrolyte can be a tetrafluoroborate hexafluorophosphate halide or perchlorate salt. The tetrafluoroborate hexafluorophosphate halide or perchlorate salt preferably has a tetraalkylammonium or alkali metal cation. Examples of electrolytes include but are not limited to lithium perchlorate tetrabutylammonium tetrafluoroborate or tetrabutylammonium hexafluorophosphate.

Porphyrin monomers or macromolecules described above form the backbone of porphyrin and porphyrin fullerene electropolymers such that one porphyrin monomer is bonded to another to form a chain of the polymer. This porphyrin backbone structure is depicted in formulas X XVI below. Formula X represents a general structure of a porphyrin or porphyrin fullerene electropolymer 

All other substituents are as described above. In some embodiments m is greater than 10 greater than 50 or greater than 100 and less than 10 000.

In an embodiment of formula XII Ris heterocyclyl substituted with two Rgroups. When the two Rgroups on adjacent carbon atoms form a fused fullerenyl group such polymers are referred to as formula XIII . When the two Rgroups on adjacent carbon atoms form a fused Cfullerenyl group such polymers are referred to as formula XIV .

In some implementations of formulas X XIV p is 0 1 2 or 3 and each R is independently halogen or alkyl.

In some embodiments of formulas X XIV m is an integer greater than 2 and less than 10 000 greater than 2 and less than 1000 greater than 2 and less than 500 greater than 2 and less than 250 or greater than 2 and less than 100.

In some implementations one or more monomer units of the polymer formulas X XIV is complexed with a metal ion. The metal ion can be an ion of Na Li K Zn Cd Cu Co Ni Ru Rh Hg Pd Pt Mg Ca Fe Mn Cr Al Ga In V Sn or Pb.

The porphyrin electropolymers can be prepared according to any of the methods described above. In some cases each monomer is independently a compound of formula XX . In an example the structure of the polymer formed from the free base porphyrin corresponding to compound 2 is understood to be as shown in formula XV below.

A polymer described above and or prepared according to the any of the methods described above can be coupled to for example electropolymerized or layered on a conductive substrate. In some embodiments the conductive substrate is indium tin oxide conducting glass ITO fluorinated tin oxide conducting glass FTO glassy carbon platinum gold silver or another non reactive metal.

Metal complexes or metalated forms of formulas X XVI can be prepared by contacting the protonated polymers of formulas X XVI with a metal salt such as an acetate or halide salt. The acetate salt can be for example zinc acetate cobalt acetate iron acetate or copper acetate. The halide salt can be for example zinc chloride cobalt chloride iron chloride or copper chloride. Alternatively metal complexes of formulas X XVI can be prepared by electropolymerizing metal complexes of formulas I IX .

Properties of conducting porphyrin polymers described herein are particularly suited to use in applications for organic bulk heterojunction solar cells such as solid film solar cells and redox solution containing solar cells. These polymers can be electropolymerized on a transparent or semi transparent electrode providing enhanced electrical conductivity between the electrode and the polymer.

If porphyrinic material includes only non fullerene containing porphyrin electropolymers for example the porphyrinic material is the electropolymer depicted in formula XV light is absorbed by the porphyrinic material. Excitation energy migrates through the film to the region near an electrode and the polymer excited state injects a charge e.g. an electron into the electrode leaving an opposite charge e.g. a positive charge or hole within the electropolymer film. This second charge migrates to the interface between the electropolymer and the other electrode and is thereupon injected into that electrode. A photovoltage between the electrodes is thus established. If the two electrodes are connected electrically through electrical load a photocurrent flows and work is done. Creation of electron hole pairs within the film is also possible depending upon the redox characteristics of the particular polymer s used.

In the presence of an electropolymer material that includes both porphyrin and fullerene e.g. a polymer made from compound 3 or its free base light is absorbed by both the porphyrin and the fullerene chromophores within the polymer. The porphyrin excited states donate electrons to the fullerenes and the fullerene excited sates can accept electrons from the porphyrin. In either case a porphyrin fullerene charge separated state is formed. The electrons then migrate through the polymer and any associated conducting material to one electrode and the holes migrate to the other electrode. A photovoltage between the electrodes and is thus established. If the two electrodes are connected electrically through an electrical load a photocurrent flows and work is done. Migration of excitation energy may also occur within the electropolymer.

Light is absorbed by the porphyrin macrocycle of the electropolymer backbone. For a non fullerene containing electropolymer the follow process occurs. Excitation energy migrates through the film to the region near the electrode or near the liquid interface . The polymer excited state injects a charge e.g. an electron into the electrode or into a redox carrier molecule in solution leaving a charge of opposite sign e.g. positive charge or hole within the electropolymer film. This second charge migrates to the interface between the electropolymer and the solution and is there transported into the solution phase via oxidation or reduction of a redox carrier molecule in solution or into the electrode . The redox carrier can be for example quinone hydroquinone. The oxidized or reduced redox carrier in solution ultimately diffuses to the second electrode and transfers the charge to that electrode by means of redox chemistry. A photovoltage between the electrodes is thus established. If the two electrodes are connected electrically through an electrical load a photocurrent flows and work is done. Creation of electron hole pairs within the film is also possible depending upon the redox characteristics of the particular polymer s used.

In the presence of an electropolymer material containing both porphyrin and fullerene e.g. an electropolymer synthesized from compound 3 light is absorbed by both the porphyrin and the fullerene chromophores within the polymer. The porphyrin excited states donate electrons to the fullerenes and the fullerene excited states can accept electrons from the porphyrin. In either case a porphyrin fullerene charge separated state is formed. The electrons then migrate through the polymer and any associated conducting material to the solution interface where they are transferred to a redox carrier molecule in solution. The holes migrate to the electrode or to the solution interface where they are transferred to a redox carrier molecule in solution . The oxidized or reduced redox carrier in solution ultimately diffuses to the second electrode and transfers the charge to that electrode by means of redox chemistry. A photovoltage between the electrodes is thus established. If the two electrodes are connected electrically through an electrical load a photocurrent flows and work is done. Migration of excitation energy may also occur within the electropolymer.

To a flask was added 157 mg 0.250 mmol of 10 bromo 5 15 bis 2 4 6 trimethylphenyl porphyrin 6 1.06 g 5.00 mmol of potassium phosphate tribasic 314 mg 1.76 mmol of 4 acetamidophenylboronic acid supplied by Acros and 70 mL of THF. The suspension was flushed with argon for 10 min and then 39 mg 0.025 mmol of tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 was added and the argon flushing procedure continued for an additional 10 min. The reaction mixture was then warmed to reflux under an argon atmosphere for 48 h. The solvent was evaporated at reduced pressure the residue was redissolved in dichloromethane and washed with water the organic phase was dried over sodium sulfate and the solvent was once again evaporated at reduced pressure. The crude product was chromatographed on silica gel dichloromethane 1 acetone to give 124 mg 73 yield of the desired porphyrin. H NMR 300 MHz 2.89 2H s N H 1.84 12H s Ar CH 2.33 3H s acetyl CH 2.67 6H s Ar CH 7.29 4H s Ar H 7.47 1H s N H 7.85 2H d J 8 Hz Ar H 8.15 2H d J 8 Hz Ar H 8.72 2H d J 5 Hz H 8.82 4H d J 5 Hz H 9.26 2H d J 5 Hz H 10.11 1H s meso H MALDI TOF MS m z calcd for CHNO679.33 obsd 679.33.

A flask containing 100 mg 0.147 mmol of 10 4 acetamidophenyl 5 15 bis 2 4 6 trimethylphenyl porphyrin 50 mL of trifluoroacetic acid and 100 mL of concentrated hydrochloric acid was warmed to 80 C. After 18 h the acid was neutralized with concentrated aqueous ammonia the purple porphyrin was extracted into dichloromethane and the solvent was evaporated at reduced pressure. The residue was then chromatographed on silica gel dichloromethane 15 5 hexanes to give 89 mg 95 yield of the desired aminoporphyrin. H NMR 300 MHz 2.87 2H s N H 1.84 12H s Ar CH 2.64 6H s Ar CH 3.99 2H s N H 7.04 2H d J 8 Hz Ar H 7.29 4H s Ar H 7.99 2H d J 8 Hz Ar H 8.71 2H d J 5 Hz H 8.81 2H d J 5 Hz H 8.91 2H d J 5 Hz H 9.24 2H d J 5 Hz H 10.08 1H s meso H MALDI TOF MS m z calcd for CHN637.32 obsd 637.32 UV vis CHCl 414 510 545 585 642 nm.

To a glass tube was added 250 mg 0.40 mmol of 10 bromo 5 15 bis 2 4 6 trimethylphenyl porphyrin 6 1.28 g 4.00 mmol of 4 Boc amino benzeneboronic acid pinacol supplied by Alfa Aesar 1.70 g 8.00 mmol of potassium phosphate tribasic and 75 mL of THF. The suspension was flushed with a stream of argon for 10 min 46 mg 0.04 mmol of tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 was added and the argon flushing was continued for an additional 10 min. The tube was sealed with a TEFLON screw plug and the reaction mixture was warmed to 68 C. with vigorous stiffing. After 20 h the reaction mixture was cooled and filtered through CELITE the residue was washed with dichloromethane and the filtrate was concentrated. The residue was chromatographed on silica gel dichloromethane hexanes 2 1 to give 268 mg 91 yield of the desired porphyrin. H NMR 300 MHz 2.90 2H s N H 1.64 9H s CH 1.84 12H s Ar CH 2.64 6H s Ar CH 6.82 1H s N H 7.29 4H s Ar H 7.73 2H d J 9 Hz Ar H 8.13 2H d J 9 Hz Ar H 8.72 2H d J 5 Hz H 8.82 2H d J 4 Hz H 8.84 2H d J 5 Hz H 9.26 2H d J 4 Hz H 10.10 1H s meso H MALDI TOF MS m z calcd for CHNO737.37 obsd 737.37.

To a flask containing 250 mg 0.34 mmol of 10 4 tert butylphenylcarbamate 5 15 bis 2 4 6 trimethylphenyl porphyrin was added 30 mL of trifluoroacetic acid. The green solution was stirred under a nitrogen atmosphere for 15 min. The reaction mixture was then poured into dichloromethane 200 mL and the resulting solution was washed with water 2 and then aqueous sodium bicarbonate. After drying the organic phase over sodium sulfate the solvent was evaporated at reduced pressure and the residue was chromatographed on silica gel dichloromethane 15 10 hexanes to give 203 mg 94 yield of the aminoporphyrin. H NMR 300 MHz 2.87 2H s N H 1.84 12H s Ar H 2.64 6H s Ar H 4.00 2H s N H 7.04 2H d J 8 Hz Ar H 7.29 4H s Ar H 7.99 2H d J 8 Hz Ar H 8.71 2H d J 5 Hz H 8.81 2H d J 5 Hz H 8.91 2H d J 5 Hz H 9.24 2H d J 5 Hz H 10.08 1H s meso H MALDI TOF MS m z calcd for CHN637.32 obsd 637.32 UV vis CHCl 414 510 545 585 642 nm .

A flask containing 1.76 g 12.00 mmol of 2 2 dipyrromethane 0.89 mL 6.00 mmol of mesitaldehyde 0.98 g 6.00 mmol of methyl 4 formylbenzoate and 1.2 L of chloroform was flushed with a stream of argon for 15 min. Boron trifluoride diethyl etherate 0.84 mL 13.00 mmol was added to the reaction mixture and the solution was stirred in the dark for 30 min. DDQ 4.0 g was added and the stirring was continued for another 60 min. The reaction mixture was washed with sodium bicarbonate solution 3 and concentrated by evaporation of the solvent at reduced pressure and the residue was chromatographed on silica gel dichloromethane 15 0 hexanes . The material isolated from the column was recrystallized from dichloromethane methanol to give 1.03 g 22 yield of the desired porphyrin. H NMR 300 MHz 3.09 2H s N H 1.85 6H s Ar CH 2.66 3H s Ar CH 4.14 3H s COOCH 7.32 2H s Ar H 8.34 2H d J 8 Hz Ar H 8.49 2H d J 8 Hz Ar H 8.90 2H d J 5 Hz H 9.00 2H d J 5 Hz H 9.33 2H d J 5 Hz H 9.38 2H d J 5 Hz H 10.26 2H s meso H MALDI TOF MS m z calcd for CHNO562.24 obsd 562.24.

A flask containing 200 mg 0.35 mmol of 5 4 carboxymethylphenyl 15 2 4 6 trimethylphenyl porphyrin and 70 mL of tetrahydrofuran was cooled to 5 10 C. before lithium aluminum hydride was added in small quantities. The progress of the reaction was followed by TLC silica gel dichloromethane . Once all the porphyrin ester had been consumed ice was added cautiously to the reaction mixture. The solvent was distilled under reduced pressure and the residue was redissolved in dichloromethane. The resulting solution was dried over sodium sulfate and then concentrated by distillation at reduced pressure. The compound was used without further purification.

The porphyrin alcohol was dissolved in 50 mL of dichloromethane and stirred as small portions of activated manganese dioxide were added. The course of the reaction was followed by TLC silica gel dichloromethane . Once the conversion was complete the reaction mixture was filtered through CELITE and the filtrate was concentrated by evaporation of the solvent at reduced pressure. The residue was chromatographed on silica gel dichloromethane 15 5 hexanes to give 157 mg 83 yield of the expected porphyrin. H NMR 300 MHz 3.09 2H s N H 1.84 6H s Ar CH 2.66 3H s Ar CH 7.32 2H s Ar H 8.32 2H d J 8 Hz Ar H 8.44 2H d J 8 Hz Ar H 8.90 2H d J 4 Hz H 8.99 2H d J 4 Hz H 9.34 2H d J 5 Hz H 9.40 2H d J 5 Hz H 10.28 2H s meso H 10.41 1H s CHO MALDI TOF MS m z calcd for CHNO532.23 obsd 532.22.

To a flask containing 150 mg 0.282 mmol of 5 4 formylphenyl 15 2 4 6 trimethylphenyl porphyrin and 20 mL of chloroform was added 50 mg 0.282 mmol of N bromosuccinimide. The reaction mixture was stirred for 30 min under a nitrogen atmosphere. The solvent was evaporated at reduced pressure and the residue was chromatographed on silica gel dichloromethane hexanes 4 3 to 2 1 to give 119 mg 69 yield of the monobrominated porphyrin. H NMR 300 MHz 2.91 2H s N H 1.83 6H s Ar CH 2.65 3H s Ar CH 7.31 2H s Ar H 8.30 2H d J 8 Hz Ar H 8.37 2H d J 8 Hz Ar H 8.81 2H d J 5 Hz H 8.85 1H d J 2 Hz H 8.87 1H d J 2 Hz H 9.25 1H d J 6 Hz H 9.29 1H d J 6 Hz H 9.69 1H d J 6 Hz H 9.74 1H d J 6 Hz H 10.14 1H s meso H 10.40 1H s CHO MALDI TOF MS m z calcd for CHNOBr610.14 obsd 610.14.

To a glass tube was added 110 mg 0.180 mmol of 10 bromo 5 4 formylphenyl 15 2 4 6 trimethylphenyl porphyrin 574 mg 1.80 mmol of 4 Boc amino benzeneboronic acid pinacol 764 mg 3.60 mmol of potassium phosphate tribasic and 35 mL of THF. The suspension was flushed with argon for 10 min 21 mg 0.018 mmol of tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 was added and the argon flushing was continued. After 10 min the tube was sealed with a TEFLON screw plug and the reaction mixture was warmed to 68 C. for 17 h. Upon cooling the reaction mixture was filtered through CELITE the residue was washed well with dichloromethane and the filtrate was concentrated by distillation at reduced pressure. The impure material was chromatographed on silica gel hexanes 15 20 ethylacetate to give 114 mg 87 yield of the desired porphyrin. H NMR 300 MHz 2.94 2H s N H 1.64 9H s CH 1.84 6H s Ar CH 2.64 3H s Ar H 6.85 1H s N H 7.30 2H s Ar H 7.67 2H d J 8 Hz Ar H 8.13 2H d J 8 Hz Ar H 8.29 2H d J 7 Hz Ar H 8.40 2H d J 7 Hz Ar H 8.75 1H d J 4 Hz H 8.80 1H d J 5 Hz H 8.85 1H d J 4 Hz H 8.88 1H d J 5 Hz H 8.91 1H d J 2 Hz H 8.93 1H s J 2 Hz H 9.28 1H d J 5 Hz H 9.33 1H d J 5 Hz H 10.17 1H s meso H 10.39 1H s CHO MALDI TOF MS m z calcd for CHNO723 obsd 723.

To a tube was added 100 mg 0.138 mmol of 5 4 formylphenyl 10 4 tert butylphenylcarbamate 15 2 4 6 trimethylphenyl porphyrin 200 mg 0.276 mmol of C 123 mg 1.381 mmol of sarcosine and 40 mL of toluene. The suspension was flushed with argon for 10 min the tube was sealed with a TEFLON screw plug and the reaction mixture was warmed to 110 C. for 16 h. The solvent was evaporated at reduced pressure and the residue was chromatographed on silica gel carbon disulfide dichloromethane hexanes 100 85 15 to carbon disulfide dichloromethane 1 2 to give 80 mg 39 yield of the dyad 13. H NMR 300 MHz 3.03 2H s N H 1.62 9H s CH 1.82 6H s Ar CH 2.61 3H s Ar CH 3.10 3H s N CH 4.46 1H d J 9 Hz pyrrolid H 5.04 1H d J 9 Hz pyrrolid H 5.20 1H s pyrrolid H 6.76 1H s N H 7.24 2H s Ar H 7.70 2H d J 9 Hz Ar H 8.07 2H d J 8 Hz Ar H 8.17 2H brd s Ar H 8.24 2H d J 7 Hz Ar H 8.66 2H d J 4 Hz H 8.77 2H d J 5 Hz H 8.80 2H d J 5 Hz H 9.22 2H d J 4 Hz H 10.07 1H s meso H MALDI TOF MS m z calcd for CHNO1470.37 obsd 1470.39.

A solution including 60 mg 0.041 mmol of dyad 13 and 20 mL of trifluoroacetic acid was stirred under an argon atmosphere for 15 min. It was then diluted with methylene chloride 100 mL and washed with water and then aqueous sodium bicarbonate until all the acid had been neutralized. The solvent was evaporated and the residue was chromatographed on silica gel flash column methylene chloride carbon disulphide 3 1 to 6 1 to give 52 mg 93 yield of dyad 3. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl CS 2.98 2H s N H 1.86 6H s Ar CH 2.66 3H s Ar CH 3.17 3H s N CH 3.98 2H s NH 4.46 1H d J 9 Hz pyrrolid. H 5.14 1H d J 9 Hz pyrrolid. H 5.30 1H s pyrrolid. H 7.01 2H d J 8 Hz Ar H 7.27 2H s Ar H partially obscured by CDCl 7.94 2H d J 7 Hz Ar H 8.23 2H brd. s Ar H 8.29 2H d J 7 Hz Ar H 8.68 2H d J 4 Hz H 8.78 2H d J 4 Hz H 8.88 2H d J 5 Hz H 9.23 2H d J 5 Hz H 10.07 1H s meso H MALDI TOF MS m z calcd. for CHN1370.3 obsd. 1370.3 Uv vis CHCl 416 511 546 586 640 703 nm .

The MALDI TOF mass spectrum of an extract from the polymer containing short segments yields ions consistent with a polymer containing monomer units similar to compound 2 free base but lacking two hydrogen atoms as required for the polymer shown formula XV . Additionally the infrared spectrum of the polymer is consistent with the absence of a meso hydrogen atom whereas the spectrum of compound 2 is consistent with the presence of a meso hydrogen atom.

Compound 2 with M Zn was synthesized in a procedure similar to that discussed in Example 10 to yield a conducting metal containing polymer.

Zinc was incorporated into the polymer prepared in Example 10 by soaking a film covered electrode in a dimethylformamide solution of zinc acetate.

Porphyrinic polymer material was polymerized as described above from compound 2 free base on ITO. The side of the polymer film opposite the ITO was contacted with a circular mercury contact having a diameter of about 3 mm. A Keithley 2400 source meter was used for all measurements. The positive terminal of the Keithley was connected to the ITO and the negative terminal was connected to the mercury. The light source used was a green laser pointer 532 nm . All photocurrent measurements were taken for 60 seconds. The light source was off for the first 30 seconds and on for the last 30 seconds.

A solid film solar cell was prepared as described in Example 13 with a porphyrin fullerene polymer electropolymerized from compound 3 free base on ITO. shows the photocurrent generated the porphyrin Cpolymer film. The conditions were the same as discussed in Example 13 except that the light source was a Fiber Lite high intensity illuminator series 180 from Dolan Jenner Industries Inc. The photocurrent demonstrates that the device functions as a photovoltaic. Note that the direction of the photocurrent is opposite to that obtained with the polymer made from the porphyrin alone. Note however that and were obtained with different light sources. Therefore the amplitudes of the photocurrents cannot be compared directly.

Thin films of porphyrin polymer were grown on ITO conductive glass by electropolymerization of a solution containing 0.60 mM 5 4 aminophenyl 10 20 bis 2 4 6 trimethylphenyl porphyrin compound 2 free base and 100 mM tetrabutylammonium hexafluorophosphate in acetonitrile solvent. Electropolymerization occurred while cycling the potential on the ITO between 0.1 V and 1.5 V at 200 mV sec using a silver wire reference electrode and platinum gauze counter electrode. The resulting ITO polymer electrodes were sandwiched near a platinized FTO conductive glass second electrode at a spacing of 0.25 m using heat seal plastic. Predrilled holes in the FTO electrode allowed introduction of solution into the gap between electrodes. An acetonitrile solution of 100 mM 1 4 benzoquinone and 1.0 mM 1 4 hydroquinone as redox carrier with 150 mM tetrabutylammonium hexafluorophosphate as supporting electrolyte was introduced into the space between the electrodes.

Photoinduced electrical current was determined using a xenon lamp light source and monochromator. Electrical current was measured under illumination and in the dark and the dark current was subtracted to obtain the photocurrent. shows the results of illumination of the cell. Plot is the absorption spectrum of the transparent electrode as determined on a UV Vis spectrophotometer. Plot is the incident photon to current efficiency IPCE as determined from measurements of the cell electrode and light source. The IPCE represents the fraction of photons incident on the electrode that give rise to electrons in the external circuit.

As indicated by the cell generated photovoltage and photocurrent upon exposure to light and therefore performed as a photovoltaic or solar cell. The IPCE as a function of wavelength resembles the absorption spectrum of the transparent electrode showing that the light giving rise to the photovoltage and photocurrent was absorbed by the electropolymerized porphyrinic material on the electrode surface. Photocurrent was generated by light from at least 350 nm to beyond 700 nm representing a significant fraction of the solar spectrum on Earth. The electrons flowed from the electropolymerized porphyrinic material into the solution by reduction of benzoquinone into the FTO non illuminated electrode through the external circuit and into the ITO transparent electrode and the electropolymerized porphyrinic material film.

A redox solution containing solar cell was constructed with a film grown from porphyrin fullerene compound 3 free base . This cell generated greater photocurrent and photovoltage than the cell described in Example 15.

It is understood that the foregoing detailed description and accompanying Examples are merely illustrative and are not to be taken as limitations upon the scope of the invention which is defined by the appended claims. Various changes and modifications to the disclosed embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Such changes and modifications including without limitation those relating to the chemical structures substituents derivatives intermediates syntheses formulations and or methods of use of the invention may be made without departing from the spirit and scope thereof.

