---

title: Acidic gas capture by diamines
abstract: Compositions and methods related to the removal of acidic gas. In particular, the present disclosure relates to a composition and method for the removal of acidic gas from a gas mixture using a solvent comprising a diamine (e.g., piperazine) and carbon dioxide. One example of a method may involve a method for removing acidic gas comprising contacting a gas mixture having an acidic gas with a solvent, wherein the solvent comprises piperazine in an amount of from about 4 to about 20 moles/kg of water, and carbon dioxide in an amount of from about 0.3 to about 0.9 moles per mole of piperazine.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07938887&OS=07938887&RS=07938887
owner: Board of Regents, The University of Texas System
number: 07938887
owner_city: Austin
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090107
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 019 646 filed Jan. 8 2008 which is incorporated in this application by reference.

The present invention was made with support under contract number FC26 2NT41440 awarded by the Department of Energy. The U.S. government has certain rights in the invention.

As concerns of global climate changes spark initiatives to reduce carbon dioxide emissions its economic removal from gas streams is becoming increasingly important. Removal by absorption stripping is a commercially promising technology as it is well suited to sequester carbon dioxide CO . Such carbon dioxide emissions may be produced by a variety of different processes such as the gas stream produced by coal fired power plants. The removal of COcan be an expensive process potentially increasing the cost of electricity by 50 or more. Therefore technology improvements to reduce the costs associated with the removal are highly desirable.

The removal of COfrom fuel gas and flue gas by absorption stripping with aqueous amines is a disclosed and commercially practiced technology. A typical flowsheet for such a process is give by Kohl and Nielsen 1997 . The gas at 30 to 50 C. containing COand inerts such as methane hydrogen or nitrogen is contacted countercurrently in a trayed or packed column with lean aqueous solvent entering at 30 to 50 C. The aqueous rich solvent containing 3 to 6 molar amine is heated by cross exchange with the hot lean solvent. The approach temperature for this exchanger has historically been 10 to 30 C. with a lean solution loading of 0.01 to 0.25 moles CO mole amine. CO is removed from the solvent at 1.5 2 atm and 90 130 C. in a countercurrent reboiled stripper with trays or packing.

Commercially used amines that are used by themselves in water include monoethanolamine diethanolamine methyldiethanolamine diglycolamine diisopropanolamine some hindered amines and others Kohl and Nielsen 1997 . These amines are soluble or miscible with water at ambient temperature at high concentrations that are used in the process to maximize capacity and reduce sensible heat requirements. Other amines including piperazine are used in combination with methyldiethanolamine and other primary amines.

A number of mono and polyamines including piperazine are identified as potentially useful solvent components but have not been used because they are insufficiently soluble in water when used by themselves. Piperazine is a diamine that has previously been studied as a promoter for amine systems to improve kinetics. In water at 25 C. solid piperazine has a solubility less than 2 M so it cannot be used in traditional systems at concentrations that give adequate COcapacity for good energy performance. BASF has disclosed the used of piperazine in combination with other amines such as alkanolamines or highly water soluble organics such as triethyleneglycol to promote the water solubility of piperazine.

It has also been claimed that number of potentially useful amines such as piperazine would be too volatile if used in high concentrations in aqueous solvents. The boiling point of piperazine 146.5 C. is lower that that of monoethanolamine 170 C. so the use of Raoult s law would suggest that it would have a greater volatility at the top of the absorber.

The patent or application file contains at least one drawing executed in color. Copies of this patent or patent application publication with color drawing s will be provided by the Office upon request and payment of the necessary fee.

While the present disclosure is susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific example embodiments have been shown in the figures and are described in more detail below. It should be understood however that the description of specific example embodiments is not intended to limit the invention to the particular forms disclosed but on the contrary this disclosure is to cover all modifications and equivalents as illustrated in part by the appended claims.

The present disclosure according to certain embodiments generally relates to compositions systems and methods for the removal of acidic gas. In particular the present disclosure relates to compositions systems and methods for the removal of acidic gas from a gas mixture using a solvent comprising a diamine e.g. piperazine and carbon dioxide. Suitable diamines include those that are volatile or insoluble at normal conditions for example piperazine ethylenediamine and various substituted ethylenediamines e.g. methylethylenediamine dimethylethylenediamine ethylethylenediamine and diethylethylenediamine and piperazine e.g. methylpiperazine dimethylpiperazine ethylpiperazine and diethylpiperazine .

The present disclosure is based in part on the discovery of optimum stripper process configurations and operating conditions that result in unexpectedly high lean loading of CO. Such process configurations may include the matrix internal exchange flashing feed and multipressure processes described herein. Such operating conditions may include an unexpectedly low exchanger approach temperature. In some embodiments such exchanger approach temperatures may be approximately 5 C.

The present disclosure is also based in part on the discovery that diamines e.g. piperazine may be less volatile in an aqueous solution than expected from Raoult s law. In certain embodiments the activity coefficient of piperazine at infinite dilution in water may be about 0.05 whereas monoethanolamine MEA has an activity coefficient of about 0.16.

The present disclosure is also based in part on the discovery that when diamine e.g. piperazine solutions are loaded with up to about 0.8 moles of carbon dioxide CO per mole of diamine the volatility of the diamine may be further reduced. Such a reduction may occur at least in part because of the formation of carbamate ions. Such a reduction may result in the ability to produce concentrated solutions of diamine loaded with COwhich have a volatility acceptable for use in the methods of the present disclosure.

The present disclosure is also based in part on the discovery that the total solubility of solid diamine e.g. piperazine may be enhanced in solutions loaded with CO. In certain embodiments the present disclosure provides solutions comprising up to about 10 m moles diamine kg water total diamine when said solutions are loaded with about 0.8 moles COper mole of diamine. This increase in solubility may be due in part to the formation of carbamate ions.

The present disclosure is also based in part on the discovery that concentrated aqueous diamine e.g. piperazine may be more stable to oxidative and or thermal degradation as compared to conventional solutions such as MEA. In certain embodiments the presence of dissolved iron may catalyze the degradation of MEA at a higher rate than the degradation of diamine. In certain embodiments solutions of diamine loaded with COmay not degrade significantly even at temperatures as high as 150 C. whereas MEA may undergo significant degradation up to about 50 at 120 C. Thus in certain embodiments the present disclosure provides solutions comprising a diamine which may be used advantageously at higher pressures and or temperatures. For example the solutions comprising a diamine may be used at temperatures less than 175 C. Such an ability to operate at higher pressures and or temperatures may among other things reduce the amount of energy necessary to perform the methods of the present disclosure. In certain embodiments such a reduction of the amount of energy may range from about 10 to about 30 . Additionally solutions comprising diamine e.g. piperazine may absorb COat faster rates. In certain embodiments the use of solutions comprising piperazine may result in increased in COabsorption rates ranging from about 20 to about 100 . Such increased COabsorption rates may among other things enable absorber configurations which require less packing and pressure drop.

When used in the methods of the present invention the diamine e.g. piperazine may be recovered following absorption of CO. In certain embodiments such recovery may occur through an evaporation process using a thermal reclaimer.

In certain embodiments the present disclosure provides a method for the removal of acidic gases from a gas mixture comprising contacting the gas mixture with a solvent comprising a diamine e.g. piperazine in an amount of from about 4 to about 15 moles kg of water and carbon dioxide in an amount of from about 0.3 to about 0.8 moles per mole of the diamine.

While the present disclosure primarily discusses removal of CO any acidic gas capable of removal by the methods of the present invention is contemplated by the present disclosure. Such acidic gases may include but are not limited to hydrogen sulfide HS or carbonyl sulfide COS CS and mercaptans.

The gas mixture may be any gas mixture comprising COfor which COremoval is desired and which is compatible with i.e. will not be adversely affected by or will not adversely react with the methods of the present disclosure. In certain embodiments the gas mixture may comprise any gas mixture produced as the byproduct of a chemical process. Suitable gas mixtures may comprise one or more of natural gas and hydrogen.

In certain embodiments the present disclosure provides several process configurations that may be useful in the methods of the present disclosure. The choice of process configuration may depend upon a number of factors including but not limited to the composition of the gas mixture the desired amount of COremoval the concentration of diamine e.g. piperazine to be used and resource or environmental considerations.

One type of process configuration that may be useful in the methods of the present invention is a matrix stripper configuration. In certain embodiments such a matrix stripper configuration may be a two stage matrix such as the configuration shown in . In such a two stage matrix configuration the temperature change across the stripper may be reduced without the inefficiencies that may be associated with mechanical compression. The rich solution from the absorber may be split into two streams. The first stream may be sent to the first stripper at a higher pressure which may result in a slightly superheated feed. Heat may be applied via reboiler steam. The lean solution from the first column may be the semirich feed to the middle of the second column which may operate at a lower pressure. The other rich stream may be fed to the top of the second stripper. The second column may produce a semilean stream and a lean stream. The semilean stream may be crossexchanged with the rich feed to the second column while the lean solution may be crossexchanged with the rich solution to the first stripper. The water vapor from the overhead of the second column may be condensed and the COmay be sent to the first stage of the compression train. The water vapor in the overhead from the first column may be condensed and the COmay be sent to the second stage in the compression train. The compression work in this configuration may be reduced due at least in part to recovery of a portion of the COat a higher pressure which may reduce the need for compression downstream. In certain embodiments the lower pressure column may be set to 160 kPa for normal pressure operations. In certain embodiments the lower pressure column may be set to 30 kPa for vacuum operations. The pressure of the higher pressure column and the flow into the flash section may be optimized to minimize the total equivalent work of the system. Even though a two stage matrix is described in the present disclosure a three stage matrix may also be used with reduced energy requirement.

Another type of process configuration that may be useful in the methods of the present invention is multistage flash stripper configuration. In certain embodiments such multistage flash strippers may be configured as a multistage flash with a multistage intercooled compressor as illustrated in . Cold rich solvent from the absorber is heated by cross exchange with hot lean solution from the last stage. At stage n rich solution is heated then flashed to a lower pressure P to release COwith some water vapor. The vapor from the flash tank is combined with vapor from the next stage n 1 intercooled to condense water and compressed to the pressure P of the previous stage. Lean solution from the last stage is returned to the absorber through the cross exchanger. The process may be optimized to select a number of stages from 1 to 6 a pressure ratio P P from stage to stage of 1.2 to 10 and a heat rate at each stage from 0 to 200 kJ mol CO. The temperature of the flash tank may practically vary from 80 to 175 C. This configuration will be especially attractive with flash tank temperature from 120 to 150 C. when used with amines such as piperazine that do not degrade at the elevated temperature. The most attractive configuration with concentrated piperazine solution might use 3 stages each at 140 to 150 C. with the about the same heat rate and with approximately equal pressure ratios.

Another type of process configuration that may be useful in the methods of the present invention is an exchange stripper configuration. In certain embodiments such an exchange stripper configuration may be an internal exchange stripper such as the configuration shown in . Among other things this configuration integrates the stripping process with heat transfer. In certain embodiments this configuration may approach the theoretical limit of adding and removing material and energy streams along the entire column. Similar configurations have been described previously by Leites et al. and Mitsubishi. In certain embodiments this configuration may alleviate the temperature drop across the stripper by exchanging the hot lean solution with the solution in the stripper. In certain embodiments the configuration may comprise a continuous heat exchange surface which may allow for countercurrent heat exchange of the hot lean solution with the solution passing through the stripper. In certain embodiments a large overall heat transfer capability of 41.84 W K mol solvent per segment may be used. Such a heat transfer capability may result in a typical T of about 1.2 K and about 3 K in the internal exchanger for the vacuum operation and for operation at normal pressure respectively.

Another type of process configuration that may be useful in the methods of the present invention is a multipressure configuration. In certain embodiments such a multipressure configuration may be a multipressure configuration with a split feed such as the configuration shown in . Similar multipressure configurations have been described in our previous work. In certain embodiments this configuration may take a 10 split feed from the liquid flowing from the middle to the lowest pressure level in a multipressure stripper and it may send this stream to an appropriate point in the absorber. In certain embodiments the temperatures at the bottom of the stripper pressure sections may be equal and heat may be added to each stripper pressure section to achieve isothermal operation in each section. Such operating conditions among other things may reduce irreversibilities and work loss. Among other things this configuration may take advantage of the favorable characteristics of the multipressure configuration and the split flow configurations. In certain embodiments the middle pressure may be configured to be approximately the geometric mean of the top pressure and the bottom pressure.

Another type of process configuration that may be useful in the methods of the present invention is a flashing feed configuration. An example of such a configuration is shown in . In certain embodiments this configuration may comprise special configurations of the split flow concept described by Leites et al. and Aroonwilas. In certain embodiments at least a fraction of the rich stream may be sent to the middle of the stripper where after stripping a lean solution may exit at the bottom. The rich solution may be cross exchanged with the lean solution exiting the stripper bottom. In certain embodiments the vapor leaving the stripper may then be contacted with the absorber rich flow in a five staged upper section where the latent heat of water vapor may be used to strip the COin the cold feed and a semilean stream may be produced. In certain embodiments the semilean product may be cross exchanged with the rich solution fed to the upper section. In certain embodiments the reboiler duty may remain substantially unchanged and free stripping may be achieved in the upper section. In certain embodiments the split ratio of the rich streams into the middle and upper sections may be optimized to minimize equivalent work.

The choice of operating conditions for each of these process configurations may depend upon a number of factors including but not limited to the composition of the gas mixture the desired amount of COremoval the concentration of piperazine to be used and resource or environmental considerations. Examples of suitable operating conditions are shown in and for the double matrix internal exchange multipressure with split feed and flashing feed stripper configurations respectively.

Therefore the present invention is well adapted to attain the ends and advantages mentioned as well as those that are inherent therein. While numerous changes may be made by those skilled in the art such changes are encompassed within the spirit of this invention as illustrated in part by the appended claims.

Solubility of piperazine PZ.6HO solid in PZ solvents. The solubility of PZ.6HO in water was measured by differential scanning calorimetry. The vapor pressure of PZ and COwas measured over loaded and unloaded solutions of piperazine from 30 to 60 C. These data were combined with other thermodynamic data on PZ CO HO and regressed with the electrolyte NRTL model in AspenPlus. gives the predicted solubility of PZ.6HO in loaded PZ solvent as a function of T. 5 10 m PZ solvents can be prepared at loading greater than 0.25 moles CO equivalent PZ without precipitating PZ.6HO at ambient T. At 0 C. solutions up to 4.5 m PZ can be prepared at a loading of 0.3 moles COper mole of PZ.

Loaded solutions of piperazine were prepared by mixing and heating anhydrous piperazine and water then sparging with COon a balance. Table 1 shows that solutions with loading less than 0.3 and greater than 0.4 usually precipitate solids when cooled to ambient temperature. The solids precipitated at greater loading were identified as hydrated protonated piperazine carbamate CO.piperazine.HO .

The solid solubility of PZ was studied over a range of PZ concentration COloading and temperature. Solutions were prepared to cover the desired solution properties and were allowed to equilibrate at each condition with stirring before solubility observations were made. The transition temperature of 8 and 10 m PZ solutions over a range of COloading is shown in . The transition temperature is the temperature at which a liquid solution will first precipitate when cooled slowly. The approximate temperature ramp for all transitions was 1 C. every 5 minutes. The two dashed lines at rich loadings in represent soluble PZ solutions indicating that the solubility envelope extends at least this far. The transition temperature of unloaded PZ solutions ranging from 1.0 to 40 m PZ is shown in .

Viscosity. The viscosity of aqueous PZ solutions has been measured from 0.20 to 0.45 moles CO mole alkalinity 2 m PZ to 20 m PZ and 25 C. to 60 C. The viscosity of 8 and 10 m PZ is compared with other amines in . The amine concentration is plotted in units of moles alkalinity per kg of water in order to compare mono and diamines on the same basis. All of the viscosities are at 40 C. and at the rich loading of the system 0.3 mol CO equiv Amine for MDEA and MDEA PZ 0.4 mol CO equiv Amine for PZ and DGA 0.5 mol CO equiv Amine for MEA .

Comparison of the viscosity on this basis shows how the amine basic groups affect overall viscosity. As the concentration of basic groups increases the viscosity increases in a linear direction. The viscosity of 8 m PZ is higher than that of 7 m MEA but as compared to 60 wt DGA the viscosity of PZ is lower for a higher alkalinity. DGA solutions at 60 wt are successfully used in natural gas treating.

Oxidative Degradation. Heavy metals are known to catalyze the oxidative degradation of amines. The results of oxidative degradation of concentrated PZ in the presence of several dissolved metals are shown in Table 2. The experiments simulated four scenarios 1 leaching of stainless steel metals 2 addition of a copper based corrosion inhibitor 3 addition of a vanadium based corrosion inhibitor low concentration and 4 addition of a copper based corrosion inhibitor and proprietary inhibitor A .

Oxidative degradation of concentrated PZ was found to be four times slower than that of MEA in the presence of stainless steel metals Fe Cr and Ni and a low concentration of vanadium. As with MEA solutions PZ was determined to be highly susceptible to oxidative degradation in the presence of Cu. The primary degradation products were found to be ethylenediamine EDA formate oxalate and N formylpiperazine the amide of formate and PZ denoted as Formamide in the table . The N formylpiperazine concentration was not measured directly but inferred from formate production through the basic reversal of the N formylpiperazine formation reaction. Also as with MEA Inhibitor A was able to vastly reduce this degradation to levels comparable with the stainless steel and vanadium cases.

Thermal Degradation. Thermal degradation was investigated in PZ solutions at slightly above stripper temperature 135 C. and much higher than stripper temperatures 150 C. and 175 C. . The thermal degradation results are shown in Table 3. Experiments ranged from 4 to 12 weeks in length.

PZ thermal degradation was determined to be negligible at 135 and 150 C. as compared to 7 m MEA. At 175 C. 32 of the PZ was degraded in 4 weeks. EDA was observed as a thermal degradation product at 175 C. but not at lower temperatures. Addition of 5.0 mM Cu 0.1 mM Fe 5.0 mM Cu 0.1 mM Fe 100 mM Inhibitor A and 0.6 mM Cr 0.25 mM Fe 0.25 mM Ni did not affect degradation rates at 175 C.

The amine concentration was determined by cation chromatography. shows that piperazine solutions with a loading of 0.4 moles CO mole alkalinity are thermally stable for up to 8 weeks at 135 C. This is in contrast to loaded solutions of MEA that lose up to 30 of the MEA at the same conditions.

COSolubility. The measured solubility of COin 2 m to 8 m PZ solutions is in given in and compared to previous studies. The COsolubility of concentrated aqueous PZ solutions follows the trends found previously for lower concentration PZ solutions at 40 and 60 C. COsolubility is known to not be a strong function of amine concentration and this is confirmed for high concentration PZ solutions. At 40 C. 8 m PZ provides a working capacity of 0.73 moles kg PZ HO which is calculated based on a change in the equilibrium COpartial pressure from 7.5 kPa loading of 0.415 mol CO mol alkalinity to 0.75 kPa 0.33 mol CO mol alkalinity . For 7 m MEA at 40 C. the working capacity is 0.43 moles CO kg MEA HO based on a change in the equilibrium partial pressure of COfrom 5 kPa 0.53 mol CO mol alkalinity to 0.5 kPa 0.45 mol CO mol alkalinity . The selected range of COloading for the 8 m PZ solution falls within the solubility envelope established in .

Kinetics of COAbsorption in PZ Solutions. The kinetics of the COabsorption into concentrated aqueous PZ was studied in a wetted wall column. The measured liquid side mass transfer coefficient based on a gas side driving force k is shown compared to 7 m MEA in for 40 C. and 60 C. Data at 60 C. are plotted versus the equilibrium partial pressure of COif the solution were at 40 C. for comparison purposes.

As demonstrated in the normalized flux k for 8 m PZ is 2 to 3 times greater than for 7 m MEA. For example at 40 C. and an equilibrium COpartial pressure of 500 Pa the k for 8 m PZ and 7 m MEA are 1.98 10and 7.66 10mol s Pa m respectively. This demonstrates that the kinetic rate of concentrated PZ is over twice as fast as MEA at 40 C. The same trend is observed for the data at 60 C.

Volatility of PZ Solutions. The volatility of PZ was measured in the equilibrium cell with hot gas FTIR. The volatility of 8 m PZ solutions is compared to that of 5 m PZ and 7 m MEA in . The volatility of each solution is normalized by the PZ concentration for comparison purposes.

At 40 C. the normalized volatility of PZ solutions is the same as the normalized volatility of MEA solutions. It was anticipated that PZ would have a higher volatility than MEA because the boiling point of PZ 146 C. is lower than that of MEA 170 C. However the volatility of PZ is comparable at 40 C. Initial modeling of PZ systems demonstrates this effect as a greatly reduced activity coefficient for PZ. At 40 C. PZ volatility varies from 10 to 19 ppm at atmospheric pressure.

Cullinane 2005 estimated PZ volatility over lean solutions . At 60 C. with an equilibrium COpartial pressure of 1000 Pa he estimates a volatility of 20 e 6 atm with 1.8 m PZ. If his estimate is extrapolated to 9 m PZ the estimated volatility would be about 90 ppm. However the measured vapor pressure of piperazine is given in . At 40 C. with 9 m PZ and an equilibrium COpartial pressure of 1000 Pa the volatility of piperazine is only 45 ppm. At lower loading the measured volatility of 9 m PZ would asymptote at 81 e 6 atm. Therefore the volatility is reduced significantly by operation at a reasonable loading for lean solution.

Kohl and Nielsen 1997 note that COstripping from MEA solution increases with increased reboiler pressure. Elevated stripper pressure temperature has also been identified as a useful operating condition to minimize total energy requirement PCT US2004 019838 . This effect results from temperature swing desorption because the heat of COdesorption is greater that the heat of HO evaporation less heat is required to strip COat greater stripper temperature. This is especially true with solvents that have a greater heat of COdesorption.

The heat of COdesorption was estimated by the rigorous thermodynamic model based on data with 2.4 m PZ. Some results are given in Table 4.

In PZ solutions the heat of COdesorption is always greater than that of water which is about 40 kJ gmol. Therefore it may be advantageous to operate the stripper at greater temperature. Because PZ does not degrade very fast even at greater temperature it should be possible to operate the stripper as hot as 135 to 160 C. giving improved energy performance.

Estimated Energy Requirement. Thermodynamic models for MEA and PZ were developed by Hilliard and the PZ model was modified for concentrated solutions. The stripper section of an absorber stripper system for COremoval was simulated for 8 m PZ and compared with 7 m MEA. These simulations included a simple stripper with COcompression to 5 MPa a 5 C. cold side temperature approach for the cross heat exchanger and a 10 C. approach for the reboiler. For all cases 15 m of CMR NO 2P packing was used with an 80 approach to flood. The rich stream for each case assumed a P at the absorber temperature of 40 C. One PZ case assumed a higher P due to the faster rates of PZ expected in the absorber.

Each system was simulated at their optimum lean loadings and the baseline system 7 m MEA had an equivalent work of 36.1 kJ mol CO. The two 8 m PZ systems modeled at a 5.0 or 7.5 kPa rich equilibrium COpartial pressure had minimum equivalent works of 33.5 kJ mol COand 32.6 kJ mol CO respectively. The PZ system with the lower rich P 5 kPa was less efficient than the system with 7.5 kPa P but was better than the 7 m MEA case with an equivalent rich loading. The increased capacity of PZ improved its performance over the baseline despite a lower H.

Model Development. An equilibrium stripper model for aqueous solvents developed in Aspen Custom Modeler ACM was used to evaluate the different process configurations and solvents. A rich end pinch is usually predicted because of the generous amount of contacting assumed in the model. The stripper consisted of a flash region 10 segments with 40 Murphree efficiency assigned to CO2 and a reboiler with 100 CO2 efficiency. The flash region in the column was quantified in terms of actual section performance.

The CO2 vapor pressure kPa under stripper conditions for 7 m MEA promoted MEA and different PZ KCOblends is represented by the empirical expression in . The adjustable constants in for the PZ KCOsolutions were obtained by regressing points from the rigorous thermodynamic model by Cullinane. The constants for the MEA solvents were regressed from points obtained from equilibrium flashes in AspenPlus using the electrolyte non random two liquid E NRTL model developed by Freguia from data of Jou et al.

The COvapor pressure over 4.28M MDEA and KS 1 a proprietary solvent described by Mimura et al. based on the model by Posey et al. is shown in . For 4.28M MDEA the constants in are taken from Posey et al. For KS 1 the constant A was set at 32.45 while constants B D in the equilibrium constant expression were adjusted to fit available data. The amine mole fraction shown in for KS 1 is set at 0.1313. The fit of the KS 1 data is shown in . The COsolubility in the different solvents at 313 K is shown in . The heat of desorption was calculated by differentiating the following equation also shown in with respect to 1 T where H is the heat of desorption R is the universal gas constant T is the temperature in K c is the COloading and c d e f are empirical constants.

The heat of desorption for 4.28M MDEA and KS 1 was assumed to be constant at 62 and 73 kJ gmol CO respectively. The heat of vaporization of water partial pressure of water and heat capacities of solvent assumed to be water steam and COwere calculated with equations from the DIPPR database as described by Fisher et al. The molar heat capacities for the CO water and amine were assumed to be equal and set to that of one mole of water.

The partial pressure of CO2 and water in each section was calculated by the following equation A Murphree efficiency E of 40 and 100 was assigned to COand water. The model assumed that temperature equilibrium is achieved in each section.

The model inputs were the rich loading and liquid rate the temperature approach on the hot side of the cross exchanger difference between the temperature of the rich stripper feed and the lean solution leaving the bottom of the stripper and column pressure. Initial guesses of the lean loading section temperatures partial pressures and loading were provided. The model solves equations for calculating VLE and for material and energy balances. It calculates temperature and composition profiles reboiler duty and equivalent work.

The work lost by extracting steam from the power plant which would have been used to drive turbines to generate electricity is the first term on the righthand side of the equation in the previous paragraph while the second is the compressor work. The condensing temperature of the steam is assumed to be 10 K higher than the reboiler fluid. The turbine assumes condensing steam at 313 K and has been assigned an effective efficiency of 75 .

In this example the lean loading for each configuration was optimized to minimize equivalent work. The optimum lean loading the lean loading that minimized equivalent work was quite flat for cases with T 5 K and was approximately that for 90 change in equilibrium partial pressure of COfrom the absorber rich end to the absorber lean end at 313 K. The cases with an approach temperature of 10 K frequently resulted in greater that 90 change in equilibrium partial pressure overstripping from the absorber rich to lean ends.

In all of the cases with a 5 K approach temperature the optimum lean loading was quite high. The heat of absorption shown in is the average value from . The capacity of the solution is given by 

Effect of Varying Temperature Approach. The baseline configuration for each system given in is a simple stripper operating at 160 kPa with a 10 K approach on the hot side of the cross exchanger. also gives the energy requirement for an improved baseline with a 5 K approach. The lean loadings for the baseline T 10 K were optimized and frequently resulted in overstripping which increases the capacity of the solvents for absorption. With a 5 K approach on the hot side of the cross exchanger 3 and 12 reduction in equivalent work was obtained for the 6.4 m K1 1.6 m PZ and 7 m MEA solvents respectively relative to the baseline case with a 5 K approach with these solvents. This savings in energy would be at the expense of a larger investment in heat exchange surface.

Effect of Operating Pressure. Operating the stripper atrocuum 30 kPa with a 5 K temperature approach in the cross exchanger offers a 14 reduction in equivalent work for 6.4 m K1 1.6 m PZ and 4 and 20 more energy with 5 m K 2.5 m PZ and MEA PZ respectively. This shows that vacuum operation favors solvents with low heats of absorption while operation at normal pressure favors solvents with high heats of absorption. This effect was also confirmed in the results with a generic solvent reported in the next section. Solvents with high heats of absorption take advantage of the temperature swing. The relative vapor pressure of COand water changes with temperature. This change is greater with solvents with high heats of absorption as shown in .

The reboiler duty required for stripping can be approximated as the sum of three terms the heat required to desorb the CO that required to generate the water vapor at the top of the column and the sensible heat requirement as shown by the following equation 

Generic solvent modeling. The following three parameter expression for the vapor liquid equilibrium was used to model generic solvents 

The constant b was set to 24.76 while the constant a was varied. The value of the constant a used in the above equation for the generic solvents is shown in . shows the minimum total equivalent work for the generic solvents at 160 kPa and 30 kPa with a 5 C. approach on the hot side of the cross exchanger.

The results show that at 160 kPa the optimum generic solvent is one with a heat of absorption of 126 kJ gmol COwhich is greater than 7 m MEA 80 100 kJ gmol CO . At 30 kPa the optimum generic solvent is one with a heat of absorption 80 kJ gmol CO about that of 7 m MEA . For solvents with H

Predicted Performance of Alternative Configurations. shows that the multipressure configuration with a 160 kPa reboiler is more attractive for the solvents with a high heat of absorption than solvents with a lower heat of absorption. The performance of the alternative configurations is matrix internal exchange multipressure with split feed flashing feed. The matrix and internal exchange configurations with a 160 kPa reboiler and 5 K approach with 7 m MEA offer 9 and 11 energy savings respectively over the simple stripper operated at 160 kPa with a 5 K approach.

The characteristics of the matrix 265 160 kPa and 160 kPa strippers for MEA are shown in . The matrix stripper recovers about 40 of the COat a higher pressure and does not have the inefficiencies associated with the multipressure stripper. The reboiler duty is also slightly less for the matrix than the normal pressure stripper.

The characteristics of the vacuum and the vacuum internal exchange strippers are in . The major difference between the two configurations is the difference in the ratio of the water vapor to COin the overhead stream. The internal exchange stripper has a smaller ratio of water vapor to CO. Multipressure with split feed reduces the flow into the bottom section of the stripper and thus equivalent work. The flashing feed makes use of the latent heat of water vapor in the simple vacuum configuration to strip some COin the rich stream entering the stripper at the top of the column.

Solvent Performance. shows the performance of the different solvent types. The results show that at 160 kPa MEA PZ MDEA PZ and KS 1 require significantly less equivalent work than 7 m MEA. MEA PZ offers a 13 and 8 savings over 7 m MEA with the matrix and internal exchange configurations at 160 kPa. MDEA PZ was the most attractive solvent in vacuo conditions. MDEA PZ offers a 14 and 10 savings over 7 m MEA with the matrix and internal exchange configurations at 30 kPa. This shows that at normal pressure solvents with high heats of absorption and reasonable capacities are attractive. In vacuo conditions solvents with lower heats of absorption and higher capacities are attractive. Capacity seems to play a more important role in determining energy requirements at vacuum conditions.

Effect of Heat of Absorption. From solvents with similar capacities but different heats of absorption can be compared. 6.4 m K 1.6 m PZ and 5 m K 2.5 m PZ are compared. The results show that at a fixed capacity solvents with high heats of absorption require less energy for stripping. This is a consequence of the temperature swing. The 5 m K 2.5 m PZ offers 18 savings over 6.4 m K 1.6 m PZ at 160 kPa with a 5 K approach and savings of 3 and 4 with the matrix and internal exchange configurations at vacuum conditions.

Effect of Capacity and Mass Transfer Rates. The capacity of a solvent is defined as the amount of COa solvent can absorb over a given range of loading or partial pressure. This reflects the vapor liquid equilibrium characteristics of a solvent. A high capacity solvent can absorb or desorb more COthan one with a low capacity. Some solvents can also achieve richer loading because they have greater rates of COabsorption.

In 5 m K 2.5 m PZ and MDEA PZ have similar heats of absorption. However MDEA PZ has a greater capacity and is also assumed to achieve greater equivalent rich loading than 5 m K 2.5 m PZ. Therefore MDEA PZ provides 30 and 19 energy savings over 5 m K 2.5 m PZ with the matrix and internal exchange configurations with the reboiler operating at 160 kPa and 17 and 12 savings with these configurations at 30 kPa.

The two MEA solvents also have similar heats of absorption. MEA PZ represented by 11.4 m MEA has a higher capacity and rich loading than 7 m MEA. MEA PZ offers 13 energy savings over 7 m MEA with the matrix stripper operated with a 160 kPa reboiler temperature.

On the other hand KS 1 is never quite as good as MDEA PZ even though it has a slightly greater heat of absorption and a slightly greater capacity. The primary difference in this case may be the rich P. Because it is assumed to be a slower reacting hindered amine KS 1 was assigned a value of 5 kPa compared to 7.5 kPa for MDEA PZ.

Insight into Stripper Operation. McCabe Thiele plots provide insight into stripping phenomena. shows the McCabe Thiele plot for 6.4 m K 1.6 m PZ at 30 kPa comprising a flash section 10 segments and an equilibrium reboiler. Since this column is not pinched it could benefit significantly by using more contacting. This is shown in where the number of contacting segments is doubled. Flashing of the rich solution occurs at the top of the column. A rich end pinch is observed. The total equivalent work to generate COat 330 kPa increases from 23.7 kJ gmol COwith 10 segments to 23.2 kJ gmol CO a 2 reduction when the number of segments is doubled. Increasing the number of segments implies increased capital cost.

The McCabe Thiele plot for 7 m MEA with the matrix 265 160 kPa configuration is shown in . It is observed that the high and low pressure columns are highly pinched. A significant amount of COdesorption occurs due to flashing and under boiling conditions in the reboiler. The rich semirich and lean loadings are 0.563 0.513 and 0.447 mol CO mol Alk. This implies that a significant amount of desorption occurs in both sections of the low pressure column.

Concentrated aqueous solutions of PZ have shown promise for improved solvent performance in absorption stripping systems for COcapture. For 8 m PZ a COloading of approximately 0.25 mol CO mol alkalinity is required to maintain a liquid solution without precipitation at room temperature 20 C. . Additionally the solubility of PZ at 20 C. is approximately 14 wt PZ or 1.9 m PZ. The volatility of 8 m PZ systems was found to be between 10.2 and 18.7 ppm PZ at 40 C. which is comparable to 7 m MEA solutions.

Oxidative degradation of concentrated PZ has been shown to be four times slower than 7 m MEA in the presence of the combination of Fe Cr and Ni and Fe and V. In the presence of copper based corrosion inhibitors oxidative degradation is an issue but can be drastically reduced with the use of Inhibitor A . Concentrated PZ is resistant to thermal degradation up to 150 C. but does degrade at 175 C. losing 32 of the PZ over 2 weeks. The resistance of PZ to thermal degradation allows for the possibility of higher pressure strippers to improve energy performance.

Kinetic measurements have shown that the rate of COabsorption into 8 m PZ is more than twice that of 7 m MEA at 40 C. and nearly double at 60 C. The working capacity of an 8 m PZ solution is 0.73 mol CO kg PZ HO nearly double that of 7 m MEA. Initial modeling of the stripper section indicate that the equivalent work required for stripping of an 8 m PZ solution will be approximately 5 10 lower than that of 7 m MEA.

The rapid rate of COabsorption low degradation rate and low predicted equivalent work indicate that 8 m PZ solutions are an attractive option for COcapture in absorption stripping systems.

Effect on Power Plant Output and Process Improvement. The addition of an absorption stripping system to a power plant will reduce the plant efficiency by reducing the net power produced from the plant since steam is withdrawn from the plant to drive the reboiler and electrical power is used to operate compressors blowers etc. Based on previous process analysis and economic studies the net power output of a 500 MW power plant is about 150 kJ gmol COwith 90 COremoval. Different separation techniques are compared by separation and compression work in . The smaller energy requirements for fans and pumps have not been included in this analysis.

The total equivalent work for reversible isothermal separation to 100 kPa and 313 K and subsequent compression to 10 MPa is 18.1 kJ gmol CO. This is the theoretical minimum work for separation and compression to 10 MPa. This constitutes about 12 of the power plant output. If reversible isothermal separation to 100 kPA and 313 K is combined with a real five stage intercooled compressor with 75 adiabatic efficiency the total equivalent work is 24.1 kJ gmol CO 16 of the power plant output . If an isothermal separation such as a perfect membrane is used to produce COat the partial pressure in the flue gas at 313 K and its pressure is increased by a real five stage intercooled compressor with 75 adiabatic efficiency the total equivalent work is 28.4 kJ gmol CO.

The best solvent and process configuration is the matrix 295 160 kPa with MDEA PZ. This consumes 26.2 kJ gmol CO 18 of the net output from a 500 MW power plant with 90 COcapture . This best case offers 22 energy savings over the current industrial baseline 7 m MEA T 10 K 160 kPa and 15 savings over the improved baseline 7 m MEA T 5 K 160 kPa . This best case requires 2.1 kJ gmol COmore work than the theoretical minimum with real compressors. Because this analysis is attempting to account for the use of heat and work it is sensitive to the efficiency selected 75 for the conversion of steam heat to work.

The performance of the multistage flash was estimated for 8 m piperazine. The temperature and COloading of each stage was specified. The basis for the calculation was 0.5 moles s piperazine 1 equivalent s piperazine in the liquid solvent being regenerated.

At each stage the equilibrium COpartial pressure P Pa was calculated as a function of temperature T K and loading moles CO2 mole alkalinity from an empirical correlation of the available data Ln 36.1 93200 8.31413.9883014.3 The heat of COabsorption H J mole was estimated by differentiating this expression to get 93200 8839 8.314 The heat of HO absorption H J mole was taken to be independent of temperature at 40 kJ mole. The equilibrium partial pressure of water P atm was at each stage was estimated by exp 8.314 1 373 1 The work to compress the vapor product of each stage to 150 atm with precooling and intercooling to 40 C. was estimated by kJ mole CO 8.314 1000 0.5 ln 150 The liquid COflow rate of each stage l mole s is equal to the loading a . l The gas COflow rate at each stage is the difference in CO2 between the feed to the stage l and the liquid leaving that stage The water flow rates are given by l The heat rate for each stage is given by the energy balance J mole CO H g H 4.18 181 3.0 0.5 86 The energy value of this heat was represented by its equivalent work value 0.7 10 313 10 The total work for each case is given by 

Table 5 gives the estimated total work required to regenerate 8 m PZ at a rich loading of 0.39 moles mole alkalinity to a lean loading of 0.30. The calculation assumes that lean solution from the last stage of the multistage flash is exchanged to give a rich solution with a feed T that is 5 C. less than the hot lean solution. The vapor produced from each stage is cooled to 40 C. to condense water then compressed to 150 bar in a multistage compressor intercooled to 40 C.

The least total work 30.1 kJ.mole CO is achieved by a three stage flash with each stage heated to 423 K by steam condensing at 433 K. The pressure of the three stages is respectively 15 10 and 7 atm. The COloading at each stage is respectively 0.36 0.33 and 0.30 moles mole alkalinity. With a two stage flash at 423 K the work increases to 31.0 kJ.mole CO.

With a simpler three stage flash that heats only at the first stage the stage T is respectively 423 416 and 406. The latter stages operate at lower pressure to provide vapor without additional heating. The stage P is respectively 15 8 and 4 atm.

If the three stage flash is operated at 373 K typical of conventional simple stripper designs the total work is substantially greater 41.2 kJ mole. Furthermore the compressor must be sized to deal with a larger volume of gas at the respective stage pressure 1.7 1.3 1.1 atm resulting in greater capital cost as well.

Therefore the present invention is well adapted to attain the ends and advantages mentioned as well as those that are inherent therein. While numerous changes may be made by those skilled in the art such changes are encompassed within the spirit of this invention as illustrated in part by the appended claims.

