---

title: Method of operating a hearing instrument based on an estimation of present cognitive load of a user and a hearing aid system
abstract: A method of operating a hearing instrument for processing an input sound and to provide an output stimulus according to a user's particular needs, and related system, computer readable medium and data processing system. An object is to provide an improved customization of a hearing instrument. The method includes the steps a) providing an estimate of the present cognitive load of the user; b) providing processing of an input signal originating from the input sound according to a user's particular needs; and c) adapting the processing in dependence of the estimate the present cognitive load of the user. The estimate of the present cognitive load of a user is produced by in-situ direct measures of cognitive load (e.g. based on EEG-measurements, body temperature, etc.) or by an on-line cognitive model in the hearing aid system whose parameters have been preferably adjusted to fit to the individual user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09313585&OS=09313585&RS=09313585
owner: OTICON A/S
number: 09313585
owner_city: Smørum
owner_country: DK
publication_date: 20091218
---
This application is a utility application claiming benefit under 35 USC 119 e to provisional application Ser. No. 61 171 372 filed Apr. 21 2009 and this application is a continuation of claiming priority under 35 USC 120 PCT EP2008 0068139 filed Dec. 22 2008.

The present application relates to hearing aids in particular to customization of hearing aids to a user s specific needs. The application relates specifically to a method of operating a hearing instrument for processing an input sound and to provide an output stimulus according to a user s particular needs.

The application furthermore relates to a hearing aid system for processing an input sound and to provide an output stimulus according to a user s particular needs.

The application furthermore relates to a tangible computer readable medium storing a computer program and to a data processing system.

The disclosure may e.g. be useful in applications where a hearing impaired user s current mental resources are challenged.

In an optimum listening situation the speech signal is processed effortlessly and automatically. This means that the cognitive processing involved is largely unconscious and implicit. However listening conditions are often suboptimum which means that implicit cognitive processes may be insufficient to unlock the meaning in the speech stream. Resolving ambiguities among previous speech elements and constructing expectations of prospective exchanges in the dialogue are examples of the complex processes that may arise. These processes are effortful and conscious and thus involve explicit cognitive processing.

Working memory WM capacity is relatively constant but varies between individuals Engle et al. 1999 . In performing dual tasks which tax the working memory there are large individual differences in the ability to assign cognitive resources to both tasks Li et al. 2001 . It has yet to be investigated how persons with HI allocate their cognitive resources to different aspects of the language understanding process and how much cognitive spare capacity CSC remains to be devoted to other tasks once successful listening has been accomplished.

The ELU R nnberg 2003 R nnberg Rudner Foo Lunner 2008 relies on the quality of phonological representations in long term memory lexical access speed and explicit storage and processing capacity in working memory. When phonological information extracted from the speech signal can be matched rapidly and smoothly in working memory to phonological representations in long term memory cognitive processing is implicit and ELU is high. The ELU framework predicts that when mismatch occurs in a communicative situation it not only elicits a measurable physiological response it also leads to an engagement of explicit cognitive processes such as comparison manipulation and inference making. These processes engage explicit processing and short term storage capacity in working memory which can be termed complex working memory capacity. Thus individual complex working memory capacity is crucial for compensating mismatch.

Listening situations with various background noises or reverberation makes the speech signal suboptimal and influence speech recognition both for normal hearing persons and hearing impaired persons but to different extent.

Results by Lunner and Sundewall Thor n 2007 suggests that in an aided condition with slow acting compression and unmodulated noise the test subjects cognitive capacities are active but without exceeding the capacity limit of most hearing impaired individual listeners. Thus the individual peripheral hearing loss restrains the performance and the performance may be explained by audibility. Possession of greater cognitive capacity confers relatively little benefit. However in the complex situation with fast acting compression and varying background noise much more cognitive capacity is required for successful listening. Thus the individual cognitive capacity restrains the performance and the speech in noise performance may at least partly be explained from individual working memory capacity.

Furthermore Sarampralis et al. 2008 have shown that the about 4 dB SNR improvement attenuation of spatially separated disturbing sources of directional microphones in comparison to omnidirectional microphones have implications for improved memory recall and faster response times. Sarampralis et al. 2008 have also shown positive results on memory recall and response times for noise reduction systems.

A hearing impairment will restrict the amount of information transferred to the brain as well the signal information being of poorer quality compared to normal hearing people because of the perceptual consequences of the cochlear damage such as reduced time and frequency resolution difficulties to utilize temporal fine structure worse ability for grouping of sound streams as well as worse abilities to segregate sound streams. Thus for the hearing impaired more situations will provoke effortful explicit processing. For example hearing impaired are more susceptible to reverberation background noises especially fluctuation noises or other talkers as well as have worse abilities for spatial separation than normal hearing persons.

Hearing aids have several purposes first of all they compensate the reduced sensitivity for weak sounds as well as the abnormal growth of loudness through the use of multi channel compression amplification systems with either fast or slow time constants Fast acting compression can actually be seen as a noise reduction system under certain conditions see e.g. Naylor et al. 2006 . In addition there are helping systems that may reduce cognitive load that are used in certain situations to improve speech recognition in noise and under other circumstances to increase comfort when speech not is present. Edwards et al. 2007 have shown that directional microphones and noise reduction systems increase memory and reduce response times compared to the unprocessed cases i.e. indications on less cognitive load. The main components of such helping systems are directional microphones and noise reduction systems. The helping systems are usually automatically invoked based on information from detectors such as speech no speech detectors signal to noise ratio detectors front back detectors and level detectors. The underlying assumption is that the detectors can help to distinguish between easier listening situations and more difficult demanding situations. This information is used to automate the switching in and out of the helping systems to help the user to have a comfortable monitoring sound processing when speech is not present to a more aggressive directional microphone set up and noise reduction system when being in a demanding communication situation.

The helping systems are only used in certain listening situations because they give benefit in only these situations in other situations they may actually be contra productive for example invoking directional microphones which attenuates sounds from other directions than the frontal direction in a situation where there are little background noise and or where information from behind are of importance the directional microphones may actually worsen for example localization and probably be more effortful than a omni directional microphone. Thus the directional system may negatively influence naturalness orientation abilities and object formation localization abilities.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 330 339 describes a hearing aid comprising means for detecting a condition of a wearer biological information motion and means for determining a mode of operation of the hearing aid based on a predetermined algorithm. The condition detecting means use outputs of a pulse sensor a brain wave sensor a conductivity sensor and an acceleration sensor respectively. By this the characteristics of the hearing aid can be varied adapting to the wearer s condition.

The decision to invoke such helping systems may be dependent on the hearing aid user s cognitive status. An estimate of a user s cognitive status or cognitive load can e.g. be based on an estimate of the user s working memory capacity. For example the correlation between working memory WM performance and speech reception threshold SRT in noise as shown in Lunner 2003 and Foo et al. 2007 indicates that people with high WM capacity are more noise tolerant than people with low WM capacity. This indicates that people with high WM should probably not have the same SNR threshold e.g. when the directional microphone systems or noise reduction systems become active.

Furthermore what is a demanding situation for one person can be an easy situation for another person depending on their working memory capacity.

And this is the main point here when the situation becomes highly dependent on individual explicit processing there would probably be a need to switch to the helping systems to be able to manage the situation.

Furthermore in the future we will see even more aggressive noise reduction systems such as time frequency masking Wang et al. 2008 or speech enhancement systems e.g. Hendriks et al. 2005 as well as aggressive directional systems that are very helpful in certain situations while contra productive in other situations. Therefore there will be a need to individually determine when and under which circumstances to shift to the helping systems.

An object of the present application is to provide an improved customization of a hearing instrument.

Objects of the application are achieved by the invention described in the accompanying claims and as described in the following.

An object of the application is achieved by a method of operating a hearing instrument for processing an input sound and to provide an output stimulus according to a user s particular needs. The method comprises

b providing processing of an input signal originating from the input sound according to a user s particular needs 

This has the advantage that the functionality of the hearing aid system is adapted to the current mental state of the user.

The application solves the above problem by utilising direct measures of cognitive load or estimations of cognitive load from an on line cognitive model in the hearing aid whose parameters have been adjusted to fit to the individual user. When the direct measures of cognitive load indicate high load or that the cognitive model predicts that the cognitive limit of the current user have been exceeded helping systems such as directional microphones noise reduction schemes time frequency masking schemes are activated to reduce the cognitive load. The parameters in the helping systems are steered in accordance with the direct cognitive measure or the estimation from the cognitive model to reduce the cognitive load to a given residual cognitive spare capacity.

In an embodiment a user s working memory capacity is estimated. In an embodiment a user s working memory capacity is estimated prior to any use or normal operation of the hearing instrument. In an embodiment the estimate of the user s working memory capacity is used in the estimate of the user s present cognitive load. In an embodiment the present working memory span of the user is estimated in different situations e.g. prior to any use or normal operation of the hearing instrument. In an embodiment an estimate of the present cognitive load of a user is related to an estimate of the present working memory span of the user.

The term an estimate of present cognitive load of a user is in the present context taken to mean an estimate of the present mental state of the user the estimate at least being able to differentiate between two mental states HIGH and LOW use of mental resources cognitive load . A LOW cognitive load is taken to imply a state of implicit processing of the current situation information which the user is exposed to i.e. a routine situation requiring no conscious mental activity . A HIGH cognitive load is taken to imply a state of explicit processing by the brain of the current situation information which the user is exposed to i.e. a non routine situation requiring mental activity . Acoustic situations requiring explicit processing of a user can e.g. be related to a bad signal to noise ratio e.g. due to a noisy environment or a party situation or to reverberation. In an embodiment the estimate of present cognitive load comprises a number of load levels e.g. 3 or 4 or 5 or more levels. In an embodiment the estimate of present cognitive load is provided in real time i.e. the estimate of present cognitive load is adapted to be responsive to changes in a user s cognitive load within seconds e.g. in less than 10 s e.g. less than 5 s such as less than 1 s. In an embodiment the estimate of present cognitive level is provided in as a result of a time averaging process over a period which is smaller than 5 minutes such as smaller than 1 minute such as smaller than 20 seconds.

In an embodiment the method comprises providing a cognitive model of the human auditory system the model providing a measure of the present cognitive load of the user based on inputs from customizable parameters and providing said estimate of the present cognitive load of the user in dependence on said cognitive model.

In an embodiment it is suggested to use an online individualized cognitive model in the hearing aid that determines when signal processing to reduce cognitive load should be used.

In an embodiment the method comprises individualizing at least one of the customizable parameters of the cognitive model to a particular user s behavior.

One cognitive model that may be used is the Ease of Language Understanding model R nnberg 2003 R nnberg et al. 2008 which may predict when the cognitive load in a situation switch from implicit effortless to explicit effortful . Thus the suggested use of the real time ELU model would be to steer the aggressiveness of helping systems for the individual in situations which are explicit effortful for the individual. Other cognitive models may be used e.g. TRACE model McClelland Elman 1986 the Cohort model Marslen Wilson 1987 NAM model Luce Pisoni 1998 the SOAR model Laird et al. 1987 the CLARION model Sun 2002 Sun 2003 Sun et al. 2001 Sun et al. 2005 Sun et al. 2006 the CHREST model Gobet et al. 2000 Gobet et al. 2001 Jones et al. 2007 and the ACT R model Reder et al. 2000 Stewart et al. 2007 as well as Working Memory models according to Baddeley Baddeley 2000 however according to the needs of the particular application.

In an embodiment the processing of an input signal originating from the input sound according to a user s particular needs comprises providing a multitude of separate functional helping options one or more of said separate functional options being selected and included in the processing according to an individualized scheme depending on the input signal and or on values of signal parameters derived there from and on said estimate of the present cognitive load of the user.

In an embodiment the separate functional helping options are selected from the group comprising see e.g. Dillon 2001 or Kates 2008 

This has the advantage that individual helping options can be taken into use or enhanced in dependence of an estimate of the cognitive load of a user thereby increasing the comfort of the user and or intelligibility of the processed sound.

The choice whether or not to invoke directional microphone is a trade off between omni directional and directional benefits. In a particular embodiment a SNR Signal to Noise Ratio threshold at which the hearing aid automatically shifts from omni directional to directional microphone is set for a particular user depending on the user s working memory capacity.

In a particular embodiment a degree of noise reduction for a particular user in a particular listening situation is set depending on the user s working memory capacity. A person with a relatively high WM capacity is e.g. expected to be able to tolerate more distortions and thus more aggressive noise reduction than a person with a relatively low WM capacity in a given listening situation.

In a particular embodiment the rate of compression for a particular user in a particular listening situation is set depending on the user s working memory capacity. A person with relatively high WM capacity with abilities to obtain a speech recognition threshold SRT in noise at negative SNR see e.g. would e.g. benefit from a relatively fast compression in that situation while a person with a relatively low WM capacity whose SRT in noise is at positive SNRs would have a disadvantage from fast compression.

In an embodiment the properties or signal parameters extracted from the input signal include one or more of the following

The latter properties or signal parameters dealing with richness of environmental variations comprises e.g. short time variations in the acoustical environment as reflected in changes in properties or signal parameters of the input signal. In an embodiment the parameters or properties of the input signal are measured with a number of sensors or derived from the signal. In an embodiment acoustic dose is e.g. measured with a dose meter over a predefined time e.g. seconds e.g. 5 or 10 seconds or more cf. e.g. Gatehouse et al. 2006 a b Gatehouse et al. 2003 .

In an embodiment the customizable parameters of the cognitive model relate to one or more of the following properties of the user

In an embodiment the estimate of the present cognitive load of the user is determined or influenced by at least one direct measure of cognitive load for the user in question. In an embodiment the estimate of the present cognitive load of the user is determined solely on the basis of at least one direct measure of cognitive load for the user in question. Alternatively the estimate of the present cognitive load of the user is determined or influenced by a combination of inputs from a cognitive model and inputs from one or more direct measures of cognitive load of the user. In an embodiment a direct measure of present cognitive load is used as an input to the cognitive model.

Any direct measure of current cognitive load can be used as an input to estimate current cognitive load. In a particular embodiment however a direct measure of cognitive load is obtained through ambulatory electroencephalogram EEG .

In an embodiment a direct measure of cognitive load is obtained through monitoring the body temperature.

In an embodiment a direct measure of cognitive load is obtained through a push button which the hearing aid user presses when cognitive load is high.

In an embodiment a direct measure of cognitive load is obtained in relation to a timing information such as to the time of the day. Preferably the timing information is related to a start time such as the time the user awoke from a sleep or rest or the time when a user started on a work related task e.g. the stat time of a working period . In an embodiment the method comprises the possibility for a user to set the start time.

A hearing aid system for processing an input sound and to provide an output stimulus according to a user s particular needs is furthermore provided by the present application. The system comprises

In an embodiment the hearing aid system comprises a hearing instrument adapted for being worn by a user at or in an ear. In an embodiment the hearing instrument comprises at least one electric terminal specifically adapted for picking up electric signals from the user related to a direct measure of cognitive load. In an embodiment the hearing instrument comprises a behind the ear BTE part adapted for being located behind an ear of the user wherein at least one electric terminal is located in the BTE part. In an embodiment the hearing instrument comprises an in the ear ITE part adapted for being located fully or partially in the ear canal of the user wherein at least one electric terminal is located in the ITE part. In an embodiment the system alternatively or additionally comprises one or more electric terminals or sensors NOT located in the hearing instrument but contributing to the direct measure of present cognitive load. In an embodiment such additional sensors or electric terminals are adapted to be connected to the hearing instrument by a wired or wireless connection.

In an embodiment the hearing instrument comprises an input transducer e.g. a microphone for converting an input sound to en electric input signal a signal processing unit for processing the input signal according to a user s needs and providing a processed output signal and an output transducer e.g. a receiver for converting the processed output signal to an output sound. In an embodiment the function of providing an estimate of the present cognitive load of the user is performed by the signal processing unit. In an embodiment the functions of the cognitive model and or the processing related to the direct measures of the cognitive load are performed by the signal processing unit. In an embodiment the hearing instrument comprises a directional microphone system that can be controlled in accordance with the estimate of cognitive load. In an embodiment the hearing instrument comprises a noise reduction system that can be controlled in accordance with the estimate of cognitive load. In an embodiment the hearing instrument comprises a compression system that can be controlled in accordance with the estimate of cognitive load. The hearing instrument is a low power portable device comprising its own energy source typically a battery. The hearing instrument may in a preferred embodiment comprise a wireless interface adapted for allowing a wireless link to be established to another device e.g. to a device picking up data related to direct measures of cognitive load of a user e.g. voltages measured on body tissue of neural elements. In an embodiment the estimate of present cognitive load of a user is fully or partially made in a physically separate device from the hearing instrument preferably in another body worn device and the result transmitted to the hearing instrument via a wired or wireless connection. In an embodiment the hearing aid system comprises two hearing instruments of a binaural fitting. In an embodiment the two hearing instruments are able to exchange data e.g. via a wireless connection e.g. via a third intermediate device. This has the advantage that signal related data can be better extracted due to the spatial difference of the input signals picked up by the two hearing instruments and that inputs to direct measures of cognitive load can be better picked up by spatially distributed sensors and or electric terminals .

In an embodiment the hearing aid system comprises a memory wherein information about the user s working memory capacity is stored. In an embodiment the estimation unit is adapted to provide an estimate of present cognitive load of the user based on the user s working memory capacity.

In an embodiment the hearing aid system is adapted to estimate the present working memory span of the user. In an embodiment the estimation unit is adapted to provide an estimate of the present cognitive load of the user based on the estimate of the present working memory span of the user.

It is intended that the process features of the method described above in the detailed description of mode s for carrying out the invention and in the claims can be combined with the system when appropriately substituted by a corresponding structural features and vice versa. Embodiments of the system have the same advantages as the corresponding method.

A tangible computer readable medium storing a computer program is moreover provided by the present application the computer program comprising program code means for causing a data processing system to perform the method described above in the detailed description of mode s for carrying out the invention and in the claims when said computer program is executed on the data processing system.

A data processing system is moreover provided by the present application the data processing system comprising a processor and program code means for causing the processor to perform the method described above in the detailed description of mode s for carrying out the invention and in the claims.

Further objects of the application are achieved by the embodiments defined in the dependent claims and in the detailed description of the invention.

As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well i.e. to have the meaning at least one unless expressly stated otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms includes comprises including and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof. It will be understood that when an element is referred to as being connected or coupled to another element it can be directly connected or coupled to the other element or intervening elements maybe present unless expressly stated otherwise. Furthermore connected or coupled as used herein may include wirelessly connected or coupled. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items. The steps of any method disclosed herein do not have to be performed in the exact order disclosed unless expressly stated otherwise.

The figures are schematic and simplified for clarity and they just show details which are essential to the understanding of the invention while other details are left out.

Further scope of applicability of the present disclosure will become apparent from the detailed description given hereinafter. However it should be understood that the detailed description and specific examples while indicating preferred embodiments of the application are given by way of illustration only since various changes and modifications within the spirit and scope of the disclosure will become apparent to those skilled in the art from this detailed description.

Recent data have been published that suggest that individual cognitive abilities are pertinent to different listening conditions e.g. Craik 2007 Gatehouse et al. 2003 2006b Lunner 2003 Humes et al. 2003 Foo et al. 2007 Zekveld et al. 2007 .

When listening become difficult e.g. because of many sound sources interfering with the target signal or because of a poorly specified input signal due to hearing impairment listening must rely more on knowledge and context than would be the case when the incoming signal is clear and undistorted. This shift from mostly bottom up signal based to mostly top down knowledge based processing manifests as listening being more effortful.

The trade offs between effortless bottom up processing and effortful top down processing and the allocation of cognitive resources to perception during effortful listening can be conceptualized in terms of working memory Jarrold Towse 2006 Baddeley Hitch 1974 Baddeley 2000 Daneman Carpenter 1980 . The model of WM assumes that there is a limited resource capacity that constrains the amount of information that can be processed and stored Just Carpenter 1992 .

However the conceptual definition of WM capacity is not straightforward. According to Feldman Barrett et al. 2004 there is no generally agreed upon definition of WM capacity. There are several aspects or components to WM and individual differences in WM function could result from each of them. Indeed researchers have investigated a variety of properties that contribute to individual differences in WM e.g. resource allocation Just Carpenter 1992 buffer size Cowan 2001 processing capacity Halford et al. 1998 .

Nevertheless in the following it is assumed that within the capacity constraint resources can be allocated to either processing or storage or both. An insufficient capacity for the total activation required for a particular task may result when either the storage demands or the processing demands for activation are exceeded. The result may be task errors loss of information from temporary storage temporal decay of memories forgetting or slower processing.

Both the storage and processing functions of WM are necessary for the performance of most complex tasks including language comprehension. For example in a conversation in a noisy background information must be stored in WM in order to make sense of subsequent information. At the same time some words or fragments are possibly missed as a consequence of both the hearing loss and the interfering noise and thus some of the limited cognitive processing resources need to be allocated to inferring what is being said.

For a given individual many factors which tax the processing function of working memory will result in fewer resources being allocated to its storage function. Pichora Fuller 2007 reviewed examples of conditions that would increase processing demands with a possible consequent reduction in storage they include e.g. adding a secondary motor task such as finger tapping e.g. Kemper et al. 2003 or walking over obstacles e.g. Li et al. 2001 and distorting the signal or reducing the signal to noise ratio SNR or the availability of supportive contextual cues e.g. Pichora Fuller et al. 1995 . Recall of words or sentences is better when the target speech is presented in less challenging than in more challenging backgrounds progressing from quiet to a single competing speaker to two competing speakers to multi talker babble Rabbitt 1968 Tun Wingfield 1999 Wingfield Tun 2001 Pichora Fuller et al. 1995 .

Pichora Fuller 2007 made a very useful distinction between inter individual differences and intra individual differences in working memory capacity. When age is controlled for there are still significant differences between individual WM capacities e.g. Daneman Carpenter 1980 Engle et al. 1992 i.e. there exists inter individual differences in working memory capacity. Given the limited capacity assumption the more of an individual s WM capacity is spent on processing information the less remains to be spent on storage such that intra individual differences in recall can be used to infer the differences in the processing demands placed on the individual in varying conditions Pichora Fuller 2003 2007 . Thus intra individual performance in recall tasks would be affected if storage demand exceeds remaining storage capacity for conditions requiring large processing demands e.g. poor SNR.

Complex working memory tasks have simultaneous storage maintaining information in an active state for later recall and processing manipulating information for a current computation components Daneman Carpenter 1980 . In the typical WM span task using sentences the test subject reads or listens to a sentence and completes a task that requires trying to understand the whole sentence by reading it aloud repeating it or judging it for some property such as whether the sentence make sense or not . Following the presentation of a set of sentences the test subject is asked to recall the target word often the sentence final or sentence initial word of each sentence in the set. The number of sentences in the recall set is incremented and the span score typically reflects the maximum number of target words that are correctly recalled. Individuals with larger spans are considered e.g. Daneman Carpenter 1980 to have better language processing abilities than individuals with smaller spans. schematically illustrates the working memory capacity of two individual persons A and B A having the relatively smaller and B the relatively larger working memory capacity. This then represents inter individual differences . For a given individual conditions in which larger spans are measured are considered to demand less processing than conditions in which smaller spans are measured. schematically illustrates intra individual differences in working memory span WMS for the same individual A in three different listening environments Q quiet N noise N more noise showing the relationship that a more difficult listening condition results in a smaller WMS. The concepts illustrated in are adopted from Pichora Fuller 2007.

Intra individual differences might be used to evaluate outcome insofar as increases in working memory span post hearing aid intervention would suggest that the intervention has resulted in fewer processing resources being allocated to listening because it has become easier Pichora Fuller 2007 . In other words increases in WM span post hearing aid intervention i.e. intra individual improvements in WM storage would suggest that the intervention has resulted in listening becoming easier with fewer WM processing resources needing to be allocated.

Inter individual differences may be used to guide who will benefit from a particular hearing aid signal processing scheme under a given circumstance such that the benefits and disadvantages of the signal processing is traded off against the available individual WM capacity. That is the individual working memory capacity may in a given listening condition determine when it is beneficial or disadvantageous to use a certain signal processing scheme.

Therefore an estimate of present cognitive load is advantageous in determining an appropriate processing scheme of a hearing aid in a specific listening situation for a specific individual . With reference to the total WM capacity of an individual can e.g. be estimated in advance of the use of a hearing aid e.g. in a fitting situation . The WMS of the individual in different listening situations being indicative of present cognitive load can e.g. be estimated by a model of the human auditory system and or by a direct measurement e.g. by an EEG measurement and or from a detector of the current auditory environment cf. below.

Listening becomes effortful in challenging signal to noise ratios SNR for people with hearing loss and speech recognition performance is affected for hearing impaired people even in relatively favourable SNR conditions e.g. Plomp 1988 McCoy et al. 2005 van Boxtel et al. 2000 Larsby et al. 2005 . Since increased listening effort corresponds to limited WM resources being disproportionally allocated to perceptual processing thereby leaving fewer resources remaining for storage it would be expected that listeners who are hard of hearing would be poorer than normal hearing listeners on complex auditory tasks. Indeed results by Rabbitt 1990 suggest that for listeners who are hard of hearing information processing capacity resources are allocated to a greater extent to the task of initially perceiving the speech input leaving fewer resources for subsequent recall.

Lunner 2003 reported an experiment where 72 clinical hearing impaired subjects with similar pure tone audiograms were aided to assure audibility of the target signal and tested for speech reception thresholds in noise. Pure tone hearing thresholds did not explain the up to 10 dB SNR across subject variation in speech reception thresholds. However the individual working memory capacity as measured by the reading span test Daneman Carpenter 1980 R nnberg 1990 explained about 40 of the inter individual variance indicating that larger working memory capacity is associated with greater resistance to interfering noise. This trend of the experimental results is schematically shown in . Thus it is reasonable to assume that the working memory capacity is challenged at the speech reception threshold.

Hearing aid processing itself may challenge listening such that individual differences in cognitive processing resources are related to listening success with specific types of technology.

Today there are several helping systems available in hearing aids that are intended to aid the hearing impaired in challenging listening situations. Usually the objective is by some means to remove signals that are considered less important and or to emphasize or enhance signals that are considered more important. The systems that are widespread in commercial hearing aids include directional microphones noise reduction schemes as well as fast acting wide dynamic range compression schemes. All of these systems have their benefits and disadvantages with regard to applicability in different situations. In the following these systems as well as a few examples of possible future systems are reviewed in the light of individual WM differences. The line of arguments is that signal processing to improve speech recognition has both positive and negative consequences but the consequences for the individual may depend on the individual WM capacity. Thus the wisdom of using the signal processing system in a given situation may depend on the hearing aid user s individual WM capacity. The systems are discussed separately although there may be interactions between these systems that have further consequences.

Several studies indicate that pure tone hearing threshold elevation is the primary determinant of speech recognition performance in quiet background conditions e.g. in a conversation with one person or listening to the television under otherwise undisturbed conditions see e.g. Dubno et al 1984 Schum et al 1991 Magnusson et al 2001 . Thus in less challenging situations individual differences in working memory are possibly of secondary importance the individual peripheral hearing loss constrains the performance and the performance may largely be explained by audibility. Possession of greater working memory capacity confers relatively little benefit. In such situations it is probably redundant or even counterproductive to invoke extra helping systems.

Modern hearing aids usually have the option of switching between omni directional and directional microphones. Directional microphone systems are designed to take advantage of the spatial differences between speech and noise. Directional microphones are more sensitive to sounds coming from the front than sounds coming from the back and the sides. The assumption is that frontal signals are most important while sounds from other directions are of less importance. Several algorithms have been developed to maximally attenuate moving or fixed noise source s from the rear hemisphere see e.g. van den Bogaert et al. 2008 .

Usually there are algorithms that automatically switch between directional microphone and omni directional microphone in situations that are estimated to be beneficial for the particular type of microphone. The decision to invoke the directional microphone is often based on an estimated SNR being below a given threshold value and by estimations of whether the target signal is coming from the frontal position or not.

In a review by Ricketts 2005 the evidence of directional microphone benefit compared to omni directional i.e. the SNR improvement is up to 6 7 dB typically 3 4 dB in certain noisy environments that are similar to those experienced in the real world that is if a no more than moderate reverberation occurs b the listener is facing the sound source of interest and c the distance to this source is rather short. The SRT in noise shows improvements in accordance with the SNR improvements Ricketts 2005 . Thus in certain given situations directional microphones give a clear and documented benefit.

If the target is not in front or if there are multiple targets the attenuation of sources from other directions than frontal by directional microphones may interfere with the auditory scene Shinn Cunningham 2008a b . In natural communication attention switches to different locations for monitoring purposes. Therefore omni directional microphones may be preferred in situations requiring shift of attention.

Van den Bogaert et al. 2008 have shown that directional microphone algorithms can have a large influence on the localization of target and noise source.

Unexpected or unmotivated automatic switches between directional and omni directional microphones may be cognitively disturbing if the switching interferes with the listening situation Shinn Cunningham 2008b .

Sarampalis et al. 2009 have investigated intra individual differences by varying the SNR from 2 dB to 2 dB simulating the improvement in SNR by directional microphones compared to omni directional microphones. The WM test was a dual task where a the listening task involved repeating the last word of sentences presented over headphones and b the second task was based on a memory task used by Pichora Fuller et al. 1995 where after every 8 sentences the participant was asked to recall the last 8 words s he had reported. The results were that performance on the secondary memory recall task increased significantly in the 2 dB SNR.

This indicates that the directional microphone intervention may have the benefit of releasing working memory resources to retain storage capacity in certain noisy situations.

As noted above omni directional microphones may be preferred in situations with conflicting multiple targets that are not in the frontal position. On the other hand the directional microphone intervention may release working memory resources. Therefore the decision of using directional microphones may be dependent on the individual WM capacity. Consider e.g. and assume for example a situation with 0 dB SNR dashed line . Inter individual and intra individual differences in WM capacity may also play a role in determining the benefit of directional microphones for a given individual in a given situation. Consider for example in a situation with 0 dB SNR dashed line . If we assume that the individual SRT in noise reflects the SNR at which WM capacity is severely challenged indicates that the WM capacity limit is challenged at about 5 dB for a high WM capacity person. At 0 dB SNR the person with high WM capacity probably possesses the WM capacity to use the omni directional microphone while at 5 dB this person may need to sacrifice the omni directional benefits and use the directional microphone to release WM resources. However for the person with low WM capacity even the 0 dB situation probably challenges WM capacity limits. Therefore this person is probably best helped by selecting the directional microphone at 0 dB to release WM resources thereby sacrificing the omni directional benefits. Thus it may be the case that the choice of SNR at which the directional microphone is invoked should be a trade off between omni directional and directional benefits and individual WM capacity and that inter individual differences in WM performance may be used to individually set the SNR threshold at which the hearing aid automatically shifts from omni directional to directional microphone.

Thus the choice to invoke directional microphone is a trade off between omni directional and directional benefits and dependent on the individual WM capacity. This suggests that inter individual differences in WM performance may be used to individually set the SNR threshold at which the hearing aid automatically shifts from omni directional to directional microphone.

Noise reduction systems or more specifically single microphone noise reduction systems attempt to separate the target speech from disturbing noise by some separation algorithm operating on just one microphone input where different amplification is applied to the separated speech and noise estimates thereby enhancing the speech and or attenuating the noise.

There are several approaches to obtain separate estimates of speech and noise signals. One approach in current hearing aids is to use the modulation index as a basis for the estimation. The rationale is that speech includes more level modulations than noise see e.g. Plomp 1994 . Algorithms to calculate the modulation index usually operates in several frequency bands and if a frequency band includes a high modulation index the band is classified as including speech and is therefore given more amplification while frequency bands with less modulations are classified as noise and thus attenuated see e.g. Holube et al. 1999 . Other noise reduction approaches include the use of the level distribution function for speech EP 0 732 036 or voice activity detection by synchrony detection Schum 2003 . However the estimation of speech and noise components on a short term basis milliseconds is very difficult and misclassifications may occur. Therefore commercial noise reduction systems in hearing aids are typically very conservative in the estimation of speech and noise components and therefore only give a rather long term estimation of noise or speech. Such systems have not shown improvements in speech recognition in noise Bentler Chiou 2006 . Nevertheless typical commercial noise reduction systems do give a reduction in overall loudness of the noise which is thus rated as more comfortable than without this system Schum 2003 and the annoyance and fatigue associated with using hearing aids may therefore be reduced.

More aggressive forms of noise reduction systems are found in the literature including spectral subtraction or weighting algorithms where the noise is estimated either in brief pauses of the target signal or by modeling the statistical properties of speech and noise e.g. Ephraim Malah 1984 Martin 2001 Martin Breithaupt 2003 Lotter Vary 2003 for a review see Hamacher et al. 2005 . The estimates of speech and noise are subtracted or weighted on a short term basis in a number of frequency bands which gives an impression of a less noisy signal. However this comes at a cost of a new type of distortion usually called musical noise . This extraneous artifactual signal possibly increases cognitive load which may consume working memory resources. Thus in optimizing these algorithms there is a trade off between the amount of noise reduction and the amount of distortion.

Sarampalis et al. 2006 2008 2009 investigated normal hearing listeners and listeners with mild to moderate sensorineural hearing loss with and without a noise reduction scheme based on the Ephraim Malah 1984 algorithm. The test was a dual task paradigm with the primary task being immediate repetition of heard sentences and the secondary task was subsequent recall after eight sentences. The sentence material was sentences of high and low context Pichora Fuller et al. 1995 . For normal hearing subjects there was some recall improvement with noise reduction in context free sentences. Thus the algorithm mitigated some of the deleterious effects of noise by reducing cognitive effort and improving performance in the recall task. Furthermore listening effort was assessed using a dual task method with listeners performing simultaneous visual reaction time RT task. The results indicated that performance in the RT task was negatively affected by the presence of noise. However the effect on the hearing impaired subjects performance was largely unaffected by noise reduction processing on or off. Sarampalis et al. 2008 therefore argued that with hearing loss there is a greater reliance on top down processing when listening to speech in noise.

Another recent approach to the separation of speech from speech in noise mixtures is the use of binary time frequency masks e.g. Wang 2005 Wang 2008 Wang et al. 2009 . The aim of this approach is to create a binary time frequency pattern from the speech noise mixture. Each local time frequency unit is assigned to either a 1 or a 0 depending on the local SNR. If the local SNR is favorable for the speech signal this unit is assigned a 1 otherwise it is assigned a 0. This binary mask is then applied directly on the original speech noise mixture thereby attenuating the noise segments. A challenge with this approach is to find the correct estimate of the local SNR.

However ideal binary masks IBM have been used to investigate the potential of this technique for hearing impaired test subjects Anzalone et al. 2006 Wang 2008 Wang et al. 2009 . In IBM processing the local SNR is known beforehand which it would not be in a realistic situation with non ideal detectors of speech and noise signals. Thus IBM is not directly applicable in hearing aids. Wang et al. 2009 evaluated the effects of IBM processing on speech intelligibility for hearing impaired listeners by assessing the SRT in noise. For a cafeteria background Wang et al. 2009 observed a 15.6 dB SRT reduction improvement for the hearing impaired listeners.

Nevertheless IBM may produce cognitively loading distortions on the target speech signal and even more in realistic binary mask applications where the speech and noise are not available separately but have to be estimated. Thus a trade off has to be made between noise reduction and distortion in a realistic noise reduction system.

In Wang et al. 2009 the average SRT in the cafeteria noise improved from 3.8 dB to 19.4 dB with IBM. If we assume that the individual SRT reflects the situation where the WM capacity is severely challenged this indicates that applying IBM processing in difficult listening situations would release working memory resources to retain storage capacity and to regain speed in information processing.

In situations where the listener s cognitive system is unchallenged using a noise reduction system may be redundant or even counterproductive. Thus any benefits of noise reduction systems will probably only be evident in situations where the working memory system is challenged.

However since realistic short term noise reduction schemes including realistic binary mask processing will rely on a trade off between amount of noise reduction and minimization of processing distortions the invoking of such systems may be dependent on the individual WM differences suggesting that persons with high WM capacity possibly can tolerate more distortions and thus more aggressive noise reduction than persons with low WM capacity in a given listening situation.

A fast acting wide dynamic range compression WDRC system is usually called fast compression or syllabic compression if it adapts rapidly enough to provide different gain frequency responses for adjacent speech sounds with different short time spectra.

A slow acting WDRC system is usually called slow compression or automatic gain control. These systems keep their gain frequency response nearly constant in a given speech noise listening situation and thus preserve the differences between short time spectra in a speech signal. Hearing aid compressors usually have frequency dependent compression ratios because the hearing loss varies with frequency. The compressive variations of the gain frequency response are usually controlled by the input signal levels in several frequency bands. However details of the implementation of signal processing tend to differ between studies and WDRC can be configured in many ways with different goals in mind Dillon 1996 Moore 1998 . In general compression may be applied in hearing aids for at least three different objectives e.g. Leijon Stadler 2008 

1. To present speech at comfortable loudness level compensating for variations in voice characteristics and speaker distance.

2. To protect the listener from transient sounds that would be uncomfortably loud if amplified with the gain frequency response needed for conversational speech.

3. To improve speech understanding by making also very weak speech segments audible while still presenting louder speech segments at a comfortable level.

A fast compressor can to some extent meet all three purposes whereas a slow compressor alone only can fulfill the first objective.

Fast compression may have two opposing effects with regard to speech recognition a it provides additional amplification for weak speech components that might otherwise be inaudible and b it reduces spectral contrast between speech sounds.

Which of the opposing effects of fast compression are most important for speech recognition in noise for the individual is largely uninvestigated including how individual WM capacity may affect the outcome. The first studies that systematically investigated individual differences by varying the speed of compression was Gatehouse et al. 2003 2006a 2006b . These studies indicated that the domains of cognitive capacity and auditory ecology are important to explain individual outcome of e.g. speech recognition in noise and subjectively assessed listening comfort. In a study that replicated the cognitive findings of the Gatehouse et al. studies Lunner Sundewall Thor n 2007 listeners cognitive test scores were significantly correlated with the differential advantage of fast compression versus slow compression in conditions of modulated noise cf. . provides a scatter plot and regression line showing the Pearson correlation between the cognitive performance score and differential benefit in speech recognition in modulated noise of fast versus slow compression. A positive value on the Fast minus Slow benefit dB axis means that fast compression obtained better SRT in noise compared to slow compression from Lunner Sundewall Thor n 2007 . However there are other studies that show a somewhat different pattern of results with regard to cognitive performance and fast and slow compression Foo et al. 2007 Rudner et al. 2008 .

Naylor Johannesson 2009 have shown that the long term SNR at the output of an amplification system that includes amplitude compression may be higher or lower than the long term SNR at the input dependent on interactions between the actual long term input SNR the modulation characteristics of the signal and noise being mixed and the amplitude compression characteristics of the system under test. Specifically fast compression in modulated noise may under certain circumstances increase output SNR at negative SNRs and decrease output SNR at positive SNRs. Such SNR changes may potentially affect perceptual performance for users of compression hearing aids. The SNR change from fast compression also affects perceptual performance in the same direction as the SNR change G. Naylor R. B. Johannessen F. M. R nne personal communication December 2008 a person performing at low negative SNRs may under certain circumstances obtain benefit from fast compression while a person performing at high positive SNRs may obtain a disadvantage. Thus it is the SNR at which listening takes place which determines if fast compression is beneficial or not. A person with high WM capacity with abilities to obtain a speech recognition threshold SRT in noise at negative SNR see e.g. would therefore benefit from fast compression in that situation while a person with low WM capacity whose SRT in noise is at positive SNRs would have a disadvantage from fast compression.

From the examples above it seems that inter individual and intra individual WM differences should be accounted for when developing hearing aid signal processing algorithms and when adjusting them for the individual hearing aid user. The choice to invoke directional microphone is possibly a trade off between omni directional and directional benefits and dependent on the individual WM capacity. Realistic short term noise reduction schemes will rely on a trade off between amount of noise reduction and minimization of processing distortion and possibly dependent on the individual WM capacity. The trade off between the fast compression benefits and disadvantages may be dependent on the individual WM capacity.

The signal processing systems above are described as helping systems for difficult situations . They should be used only when it is beneficial to release cognitive resources in less challenging situations it is possibly wisest to leave the brain to solve situations only providing audibility of sounds with e.g. slow acting compression.

There is a need to monitor the individual cognitive load on a real time basis to be able to determine when the listening situation is so difficult that working memory resources are challenged. Therefore there is a need to develop monitoring methods for estimating cognitive load. Two different lines emerge indirect estimates of cognitive load and direct estimates of cognitive load.

Indirect estimates of cognitive load would use some form of cognitive model that is continuously updated with environment detectors that monitor the listening environment e.g. level detectors SNR detectors speech activity detectors reverberation detectors . The cognitive model also needs to be calibrated with the individual cognitive capacity e.g. working memory capacity verbal information processing speed and the connections between listening environment monitors hearing aid processing system and cognitive capacities have to be established. Inspiration can possibly be found from the ease of language understanding ELU model of R nnberg et al. 2008 which has a framework yet rudimentary for suggesting when a listener s working memory system switches from effortless implicit processing to effortful explicit processing.

Using direct estimates of cognitive load can be used as an alternative to or in combination with cognitive models. Relations between environment characteristics signal processing features and or cognitive relief can preferably be included in the estimate of cognitive load. A straightforward but technically challenging direct estimate of cognitive load could be obtained by monitoring the ambulatory encephalogram EEG Gevins et al. 1997 . Such a system has been proposed by Lan et al. 2007 in terms of an ambulatory cognitive state classification system to assess the subject s mental load based on EEG measurements cf. below.

The hearing instrument in the embodiment of comprises an input transducer here a microphone for converting an input sound Sound in to en electric input signal a signal processing unit DSP for processing the input signal according to a user s needs and providing a processed output signal and an output transducer here a receiver for converting the processed output signal to an output sound Sound out . In the embodiment of and the input signal is converted from analogue to digital form by an analogue to digital converter unit AD and the processed output is converted from a digital to an analogue signal by a digital to an analogue converter DA . Consequently the signal processing unit DSP is a digital signal processing unit. In an embodiment the digital signal processing unit DSP is adapted to process the frequency range of the input signal considered by the hearing instrument e.g. between 20 Hz and 20 kHz independently in a number of sub frequency ranges or bands e.g. between 2 and 64 bands or more e.g. 128 bands . The hearing instrument further comprises an estimation unit CL estimator for estimating the cognitive load of the user and providing an output L indicative of the current cognitive load of the user which is fed to the signal processing unit DSP and used in the selection of appropriate processing measures. The estimation unit receives one or more inputs CL inputs relating to cognitive load and based thereon makes the estimation embodied in estimation signal L . The inputs to the estimation unit CL inputs may originate from direct measures of cognitive load cf. and or from a cognitive model of the human auditory system cf. .

The estimation signal L from the estimation unit is used to adapt the signal processing in dependence of L i.e. an estimate of present cognitive load .

In one embodiment the direct measure of cognitive load is obtained through ambulatory electroencephalogram EEG as suggested by Lan et al. 2007 where an ambulatory cognitive state classification system is used to assess the subject s mental load based on EEG measurements unit EEG in . See e.g. Wolpaw et al. 2002 .

Such ambulatory EEG may be obtained in a hearing aid by manufacturing two or more for the purpose suitable electrodes in the surface of a hearing aid shell where it contacts the skin inside or outside the ear canal. One of the electrodes is the reference electrode. Furthermore additional EEG channels may be obtained by using a second hearing aid the other ear and communicating the EEG signal by wireless transmission of the EEG signal to the other ear e2e or by some other transmission line e.g. wireless through another wearable processing unit or through local networks or by wire .

Alternatively the EEG signal may also be input to a neural network to serve as training data with the acoustic parameters to obtain a trained network based on acoustic input and direct cognitive measures of cognitive load.

The EEG signal is of low voltage about 5 100 V. The signal needs high amplification to be in the range of typical AD conversion 2V to 1 V 16 bit converter . High amplification can be achieved by using the analogue amplifiers on the same AD converter since the binary switch in the conversion utilises a high gain to make the transition from 0 to 1 as steep as possible. In an embodiment the hearing instrument e.g. the EEG unit comprises a correction unit specifically adapted for attenuating or removing artefacts from the EEG signal e.g. related to the user s motion to noise in the environment irrelevant neural activities etc. .

In another embodiment direct measures of cognitive load can be obtained through monitoring the body temperature unit T in an increased altered body temperature indicating an increase in cognitive load. The body temperature may e.g. be measured using one or more thermo elements e.g. located where the hearing aid meets the skin surface. The relationship between cognitive load and body temperature is e.g. discussed in Wright et al. 2002 .

In another embodiment direct measures of cognitive load can be obtained through pupillometry using eye cameras. More contracted pupils mean relatively higher cognitive load than less contracted pupils. The relationship between cognitive memory load and pupillary response is e.g. discussed in Pascal et al. 2003 .

In another embodiment direct measures of cognitive load can be obtained through a push button which the hearing aid user presses when cognitive load is high.

In another embodiment direct measures of cognitive load can be obtained through measuring the time of the day acknowledging that cognitive fatigue is more plausible at the end of the day cf. unit t in .

The embodiment of a hearing instrument shown in comprises the same elements as shown in and discussed in relation therewith. The hearing instrument of further comprises a cognitive model of the human auditory system CM in . The cognitive model CM is e.g. implemented as algorithms with input parameters received via input signals indicative of a users relevant mental skills CM inputs in typically customized to the user in question and inputs indicative of relevant properties of the electric input signal SP inputs in . Based on the inputs and the model algorithms one or more output signals CL inputs in indicative of the cognitive load of the person in question is are generated by the cognitive model CM unit . These outputs are fed to the estimation unit CL estimator for estimating the cognitive load of the user and providing an output L indicative of the current cognitive load of the user which is fed to the signal processing unit DSP and used in the selection of appropriate processing measures. The output L indicative of the current cognitive load of the user allows to at least differentiate between two mental states HIGH and LOW use of mental resources cognitive load . Preferably more than two levels of estimated cognitive load are implemented e.g. 3 levels LOW MEDIUM and HIGH . The cognitive model is e.g. implemented as part of a digital signal processing unit e.g. integrated in the signal processing unit DSP in .

Based on the signal output s L of the estimation unit the signal processing unit DSP adapts its processing. The processing of the electrical input is a function of the cognitive load and characteristics of the input signal.

The user specific inputs indicative of a user s relevant mental skills to the cognitive model comprise one or more of parameters such as user age user long term memory user lexical access speed user explicit storage and processing capacity in working memory user hearing loss vs. frequency etc. The user specific inputs are typically determined in advance in an off line procedure e.g. during fitting of the hearing instrument to the user.

The signal specific inputs to the cognitive model comprise one or more of parameters such as time constants amount of reverberation amount of fluctuation in background sounds energetic vs. informational masking spatial information of sound sources signal to noise ratio etc.

The appropriate processing measures taken in dependence of the inputs related to a user s cognitive load are e.g. selected among the following functional helping options directional information schemes compression schemes speech detecting schemes noise reduction schemes time frequency masking scheme and combinations thereof.

The cognitive model CM shall in real time in the hearing instrument predict to what extent at the moment explicit effortful processing is required from the individual based on a parameters which may be extracted from the acoustical input SP inputs e.g. amount of reverberation amount of fluctuation in background sounds energetic vs. informational masking spatial information of sound sources and b apriori knowledge of the individual persons cognitive status CM inputs e.g. WM capacity spare resources quality of long term memory templates speed of processing . In an embodiment the hearing instrument is adapted to provide basis for online testing of the person s cognitive status. In an embodiment the cognitive model is based on neural networks.

The invention is defined by the features of the independent claim s . Preferred embodiments are defined in the dependent claims. Any reference numerals in the claims are intended to be non limiting for their scope.

Some preferred embodiments have been shown in the foregoing but it should be stressed that the invention is not limited to these but may be embodied in other ways within the subject matter defined in the following claims.

