---

title: Pan-antagonists for the androgen receptor and androgen associated with anti-androgen withdrawal
abstract: Disclosed herein are novel antagonists of the androgen receptor and androgen receptor mutations associated with clinical failure of currently prescribed anti-androgens and use of said antagonists in the treatment of conditions associated with inappropriate activation of the androgen receptor.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07807713&OS=07807713&RS=07807713
owner: University of Delaware
number: 07807713
owner_city: Newark
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090515
---
This application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 832 897 filed Jul. 24 2006 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

This invention was made with government support under Grant No. R01 DK054257 08A1 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in this invention.

Disclosed herein are novel antagonists of the androgen receptor and mutant forms of the androgen receptor associated with clinical failure of currently prescribed anti androgens.

Thirty to forty percent of prostate cancer patients become androgen independent resistant to anti androgen treatment within five years. In many instances androgen receptor mutations in androgen independent prostate cancer cells cause anti androgens to act as agonists or change receptor specificity. In these cases alternative treatment regimes are needed. Exemplary treatments can be found in U.S. Pat. No. 4 636 505 which discloses acylanilides that have anti androgenic properties and U.S. Pat. No. 7 057 048 which discloses 6 sulfonamido quinolin 2 one and 6 sulfonamido 2 oxo chromeme derivatives and their use as androgen antagonists.

Androgen receptor mutations are found in as many as 50 of metastatic hormone refractory prostate cancer tumors. Studies suggest that 12 24 of hormone refractory tumors treated with flutamide contain the same T877A mutation.

Applicants herein disclose anti androgens that are uniquely designed to target mutant forms of the androgen receptor that are known to impart resistance to known anti androgens used in cancer chemotherapy. As such these novel anti androgens are believed to have the potential to delay the occurrence of anti androgen resistance anti androgen withdrawal syndrome and to serve as a second line of defense in anti androgen therapy when mutations to the androgen receptor give rise to anti androgen withdrawal

A further aspect is for a method for the treatment of a mammal suffering from an androgen dependent disorder comprising administering to the mammal in need thereof a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I or II .

An additional aspect relates to a method for the treatment of a mammal suffering from an androgen dependent disorder comprising administering to the mammal in need thereof a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula III IV V VI VII VIII IX X XI XII XIII XIV XV XVI XVII XVIII XIX XX XXI XXII XXIII XXIV XXV or a combination thereof.

A further aspect is for a method for monitoring the effectiveness of treatment of a subject with a compound of Formula I or II comprising the steps of i obtaining a pre administration sample from a subject prior to administration of the compound ii detecting the level of androgen receptor activity in the pre administration sample iii obtaining one or more post administration samples from the subject iv detecting the level of androgen receptor activity in the post administration samples comparing the level of androgen receptor activity in the pre administration sample with the post administration sample or samples and altering the administration of the compound to the subject accordingly.

Another aspect is for a method for monitoring the effectiveness of treatment of a subject with a compound of Formula III IV V VI VI VIII IX X XI XII XIII XIV XV XVI XVII XVIII XIX XX XXI XXII XXIII XXIV XXV or a combination thereof comprising the steps of i obtaining a pre administration sample from a subject prior to administration of the compound ii detecting the level of androgen receptor activity in the pre administration sample iii obtaining one or more post administration samples from the subject iv detecting the level of androgen receptor activity in the post administration samples v comparing the level of androgen receptor activity in the pre administration sample with the post administration sample or samples and vi altering the administration of the compound to the subject accordingly.

Other objects and advantages will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon reference to the detailed description that hereinafter follows.

Applicants specifically incorporate the entire content of all cited references in this disclosure. Further when an amount concentration or other value or parameter is given as either a range preferred range or a list of upper preferable values and lower preferable values this is to be understood as specifically disclosing all ranges formed from any pair of any upper range limit or preferred value and any lower range limit or preferred value regardless of whether ranges are separately disclosed. Where a range of numerical values is recited herein unless otherwise stated the range is intended to include the endpoints thereof and all integers and fractions within the range. It is not intended that the scope of the invention be limited to the specific values recited when defining a range.

The term androgen includes all known compounds with androgenic activity. Androgenic activity of compounds may be determined in a variety of ways including in cell based AR transcription assays and in biological activity assays where a compound can be demonstrated to have activity that is similar to the activity of known androgens. These assays can be performed using animals or tissues. For example compounds with androgen activity in the prostate are able to stimulate prostate growth in rodents. Natural androgen metabolites that have biological activity can be used and include for example testosterone androstenedione androstanedione and dihydrotestosterone DHT .

The term androgen dependent disorder refers to any disorder that can benefit from a decrease in androgen stimulation and includes pathological conditions that depend on androgen stimulation. An androgen dependent disorder can result from an excessive accumulation of testosterone or other androgenic hormone increased sensitivity of androgen receptors to androgen or an increase in androgen stimulated transcription. Examples of androgen dependent disorders include prostate cancer and skin disorders such as for example acne seborrhea hirsutism alopecia or hidradenitis suppurativa.

The term androgen receptor or AR refers to the androgen receptor protein as defined by its conserved amino acid coding sequence in an active or native structural conformation. Nucleic acid sequences encoding androgen receptors have been cloned and sequenced from numerous organisms. Representative organisms and GenBank accession numbers for androgen receptor sequences therefrom include the following frog U67129 mouse 109558 rat 292896 human 105325 rabbit 577829 cow Z75313 Z75314 Z75315 canary Serinus canaria 414734 whiptail lizard 1195596 and canine AF197950 .

The term anti androgen as used herein refers to Formula I or Formula II compounds that specifically block the entry of androgens into cells of the body. Anti androgens are believed to act by competitively inhibiting the action of androgens by binding to androgen receptors and or mutant forms of the androgen receptor and preventing androgens from binding to the receptors and entering the cell nucleus.

The terms effective amount therapeutically effective amount and effective dosage as used herein refer to the amount of a Formula I or II compound that when administered to a mammal in need is effective to at least partially ameliorate a condition from which the mammal is suspected to suffer.

The term mammal refers to a human a non human primate canine feline bovine ovine porcine murine or other veterinary or laboratory mammal. Those skilled in the art recognize that a therapy which reduces the severity of a pathology in one species of mammal is predictive of the effect of the therapy on another species of mammal. The skilled person also appreciates that credible animal models of human prostate cancer pathologies are known.

Thiols were synthesized from their corresponding anilines or amines when not commercially available. Briefly concentrated hydrochloric acid was added to a cooled solution of amine or aniline dissolved in water. A cooled solution of sodium nitrite in water was added slowly and the reaction stirred for 30 minutes. This solution was then added to a solution of potassium ethyl xanthate in water warmed to 45 C. and stirred for a further 30 minutes. Diethyl ether was added and the organic layer was washed with 10 sodium hydroxide and water until neutral. The organic layer was dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and evaporated. The crude product was then dissolved in ethanol and heated to reflux. Potassium hydroxide pellets were added and refluxing was continued overnight. The ethanol was evaporated. The residue was diluted with water and extracted with diethyl ether. The aqueous layer was acidified with 2 N HCl and extracted with diethyl ether. The organic layer was separated dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and evaporated to yield the crude thiol which could be further purified by column chromatography if necessary. Alternatively thiols can be generated by transition metal mediated cross coupling with aryl halides or aryl triflates see for example Buchwald et al. Tetrahedron 2004 60 7397 and Zheng et al. J. Organic Chemistry 1998 63 9606 .

Aryl and alkyl amines can be derived directly from their corresponding nitro compounds. Briefly the nitro compound and 10 palladium on carbon were dissolved in methanol and purged with nitrogen then placed under an atmosphere of hydrogen overnight or until the reaction was complete. The reaction mixture was filtered and solvent evaporated to yield the desired amine.

The thiols were added to the epoxide N 4 Cyano 3 trifluorophenyl methacrylamide epoxide to form the sulfide intermediate. This epoxide was synthesized following published procedures. For example Chen et al. J. Organic Chemistry 2003 68 10181 and Tucker H. Crook J. W. and Chesterson J. W. J. Med. Chem. 1988 31 954. 

The epoxide ring opening was achieved using a base and the appropriate thiol in a suitable solvent. For example sodium hydride 60 dispersed in mineral oil was suspended in THF tetrahydrofuran and cooled to 0 C. A solution of the thiol in THF was added via syringe and stirred for 5 minutes. N 4 Cyano 3 trifluorophenyl methacrylamide epoxide dissolved in THF was added slowly. The reaction was allowed to warm to room temperature and stirred overnight. The solvent was evaporated. The residue was diluted with water and extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic layer was washed with water and brine dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and evaporated. The compound was purified by column chromatography.

The sulfide intermediate was oxidized to give the final desired sulfone compounds. Briefly the sulfide was dissolved in dichloromethane and cooled to 78 C. 30 hydrogen peroxide was added followed by the slow addition of trifluoroacetic anhydride. The reaction was stirred at room temperature for 16 h. The reaction was diluted with dichloromethane and cold water and brine were added. The reaction was stirred for 20 minutes. The organic layer was separated dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and evaporated. The compound was purified by column chromatography.

Some of the compounds of Formulas I and II will exist as optical isomers. Any reference in this application to one of the compounds represented by Formula I or II is meant to encompass either a specific optical isomer or a mixture of optical isomers unless it is expressly excluded . The specific optical isomers can be separated and recovered by techniques known in the art such as chromatography on chiral stationary phases or resolution via chiral salt formation and subsequent separation by selective crystallization. Alternatively utilization of a specific optical isomer as the starting material will produce the corresponding isomer as the final product.

Formula I or II compounds can be administered to subjects in a biologically compatible form suitable for pharmaceutical administration in vivo. By biologically compatible form suitable for administration in vivo is meant a form of the Formula I or II compound to be administered in which any toxic effects are outweighed by the therapeutic effects of the compound. The term subject is intended to include living organisms in which an immune response can be elicited for example mammals. Administration of a Formula I or II compound as described herein can be in any pharmacological form including a therapeutically active amount of a Formula I or II compound alone or in combination with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

A therapeutically effective amount of a Formula I or II compound may vary according to factors such as the disease state age sex and weight of the individual and the ability of the compound to elicit a desired response in the individual. Dosage regime may be adjusted to provide the optimum therapeutic response. For example several divided doses may be administered daily or the dose may be proportionally reduced as indicated by the exigencies of the therapeutic situation.

The therapeutic or pharmaceutical compositions can be administered by any suitable route known in the art including for example intravenous subcutaneous intramuscular transdermal intrathecal or intracerebral or administration to cells in ex vivo treatment protocols. Administration can be either rapid as by injection or over a period of time as by slow infusion or administration of slow release formulation. For treating prostate cancer administration of the therapeutic or pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention can be performed for example orally or subcutaneously. For skin disorders administration of the therapeutic or pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention can be performed for example topical or oral administration.

Formula I or II compounds can also be linked or conjugated with agents that provide desirable pharmaceutical or pharmacodynamic properties. For example Formula I or II compounds can be coupled to any substance known in the art to promote penetration or transport across the blood brain barrier such as an antibody to the transferrin receptor and administered by intravenous injection see e.g. Friden P M et al. Science 259 373 77 1993 . Furthermore Formula I or II compounds can be stably linked to a polymer such as polyethylene glycol to obtain desirable properties of solubility stability half life and other pharmaceutically advantageous properties see e.g. Davis et al. Enzyme Eng. 4 169 73 1978 Burnham N L Am. J. Hosp. Pharm. 51 210 18 1994 .

Furthermore Formula I or II compounds can be in a composition which aids in delivery into the cytosol of a cell. For example a Formula I or II compound may be conjugated with a carrier moiety such as a liposome that is capable of delivering the compound into the cytosol of a cell. Such methods are well known in the art see e.g. Amselem S et al. Chem. Phys. Lipids 64 219 37 1993 . Alternatively the compound can be delivered directly into a cell by microinjection.

The Formula I or II compounds are usefully employed in the form of pharmaceutical preparations. Such preparations are made in a manner well known in the pharmaceutical art. One preferred preparation utilizes a vehicle of physiological saline solution but it is contemplated that other pharmaceutically acceptable carriers such as physiological concentrations of other non toxic salts five percent aqueous glucose solution sterile water or the like may also be used. As used herein pharmaceutically acceptable carrier includes any and all solvents dispersion media coatings antibacterial and antifungal agents isotonic and absorption delaying agents and the like. The use of such media and agents for pharmaceutically active substances is well known in the art. Except insofar as any conventional media or agent is incompatible with the active compound use thereof in the therapeutic compositions is contemplated. Supplementary active compounds can also be incorporated into the compositions. It may also be desirable that a suitable buffer be present in the composition. Such solutions can if desired be lyophilized and stored in a sterile ampoule ready for reconstitution by the addition of sterile water for ready injection. The primary solvent can be aqueous or alternatively non aqueous. Formula I or II compounds can also be incorporated into a solid or semi solid biologically compatible matrix which can be implanted into tissues requiring treatment.

The carrier can also contain other pharmaceutically acceptable excipients for modifying or maintaining the pH osmolarity viscosity clarity color sterility stability rate of dissolution or odor of the formulation. Similarly the carrier may contain still other pharmaceutically acceptable excipients for modifying or maintaining release or absorption or penetration across the blood brain barrier. Such excipients are those substances usually and customarily employed to formulate dosages for parenteral administration in either unit dosage or multi dose form or for direct infusion by continuous or periodic infusion.

Formula I or II compounds may be used individually or in combination and with other anti androgens or other treatments such as flutamide bicalutamide and nilutamide irradiation heat luteinizing hormone releasing hormone or luteinizing hormone releasing hormone analog such as goserelin or the like as may be conventionally employed and as may be moderated for use in conjunction with the Formula I or II compounds.

Dose administration can be repeated depending upon the pharmacokinetic parameters of the dosage formulation and the route of administration used.

It is also provided that certain formulations containing the Formula I or II compounds are to be administered orally. Such formulations are preferably encapsulated and formulated with suitable carriers in solid dosage forms. Some examples of suitable carriers excipients and diluents include lactose dextrose sucrose sorbitol mannitol starches gum acacia calcium phosphate alginates calcium silicate microcrystalline cellulose polyvinylpyrrolidone cellulose gelatin syrup methyl cellulose methyl and propylhydroxybenzoates talc magnesium stearate water mineral oil and the like. The formulations can additionally include lubricating agents wetting agents emulsifying and suspending agents preserving agents sweetening agents or flavoring agents. The compositions may be formulated so as to provide rapid sustained or delayed release of the active ingredients after administration to the patient by employing procedures well known in the art. The formulations can also contain substances that diminish proteolytic degradation and or substances which promote absorption such as for example surface active agents.

In some embodiments Formula I or II compounds are utilized for the treatment of androgen related diseases of the skin such as for example acne seborrhea hirsutism alopecia or hidradenitis suppurativa. When used for any of these purposes the Formula I or II compounds are preferably administered topically together with a conventional topical carrier or diluent. When used topically it is preferred that the diluent or carrier does not promote transdermal penetration of the active ingredients into the blood stream or other tissues where they might cause unwanted systemic effects.

It is especially advantageous to formulate compositions in dosage unit form for ease of administration and uniformity of dosage. Dosage unit form as used herein refers to physically discrete units suited as unitary dosages for the mammalian subjects to be treated each unit containing a predetermined quantity of active compound calculated to produce the desired therapeutic effect in association with the required pharmaceutical carrier. The specification for the dosage unit forms of the invention are dictated by and directly dependent on a the unique characteristics of the active compound and the particular therapeutic effect to be achieved and b the limitations inherent in the art of compounding such an active compound for the treatment of sensitivity in individuals. The specific dose can be readily calculated by one of ordinary skill in the art e.g. according to the approximate body weight or body surface area of the patient or the volume of body space to be occupied. The dose will also be calculated dependent upon the particular route of administration selected. Further refinement of the calculations necessary to determine the appropriate dosage for treatment is routinely made by those of ordinary skill in the art. Such calculations can be made without undue experimentation by one skilled in the art in light of the anti androgen activity disclosed herein in assay preparations of target cells. Exact dosages are determined in conjunction with standard dose response studies. It will be understood that the amount of the composition actually administered will be determined by a practitioner in the light of the relevant circumstances including the condition or conditions to be treated the choice of composition to be administered the age weight and response of the individual patient the severity of the patient s symptoms and the chosen route of administration.

Toxicity and therapeutic efficacy of such compounds can be determined by standard pharmaceutical procedures in cell cultures or experimental animals for example for determining the LD the dose lethal to 50 of the population and the ED the dose therapeutically effective in 50 of the population . The dose ratio between toxic and therapeutic effects is the therapeutic index and it can be expressed as the ratio LD ED. Compounds which exhibit large therapeutic indices are preferred. While compounds that exhibit toxic side effects may be used care should be taken to design a delivery system that targets such compounds to the site of affected tissue in order to minimize potential damage to uninfected cells and thereby reduce side effects.

The data obtained from the cell culture assays and animal studies can be used in formulating a range of dosage for use in humans. The dosage of such compounds lies preferably within a range of circulating concentrations that include the EDwith little or no toxicity. The dosage may vary within this range depending upon the dosage form employed and the route of administration utilized. For any compound used in the method of the invention the therapeutically effective dose can be estimated initially from cell culture assays. A dose may be formulated in animal models to achieve a circulating plasma concentration range that includes the IC i.e. the concentration of the test compound which achieves a half maximal inhibition of symptoms as determined in cell culture. Such information can be used to more accurately determine useful doses in humans. Levels in plasma may be measured for example by high performance liquid chromatography.

In one embodiment the present invention provides a method for monitoring the effectiveness of treatment of a subject with a Formula I or II compound comprising the steps of i obtaining a pre administration sample from a subject prior to administration of the compound ii detecting the level of androgen receptor activity in the pre administration sample iii obtaining one or more post administration samples from the subject iv detecting the level of androgen receptor activity in the post administration samples v comparing the level of androgen receptor activity in the pre administration sample with the post administration sample or samples and vi altering the administration of the compound to the subject accordingly. For example increased administration of the Formula I or II compound may be desirable to decrease the activity of androgen receptor to lower levels than detected that is to increase the effectiveness of the compound. Alternatively decreased administration of the compound may be desirable to increase androgen receptor activity to higher levels than detected that is 5 to decrease the effectiveness of the compound.

In another embodiment the ability of a Formula I or II compound to modulate androgen receptor activity in a subject that would benefit from modulation of the activity of the androgen receptor can be measured by detecting an improvement in the condition of the patient after the administration of the compound. Such improvement can be readily measured by one of ordinary skill in the art using indicators appropriate for the specific condition of the patient. Monitoring the response of the patient by measuring changes in the condition of the patient is preferred in situations were the collection of biopsy materials would pose an increased risk and or detriment to the patient.

Furthermore in the treatment of disease conditions compositions containing Formula I or II compounds can be administered exogenously and it would likely be desirable to achieve certain target levels of Formula I or II compounds in sera in any desired tissue compartment or in the affected tissue. It would therefore be advantageous to be able to monitor the levels of Formula I or II compounds in a patient or in a biological sample including a tissue biopsy sample obtained from a patient. Accordingly the present invention also provides methods for detecting the presence of Formula I or II compounds in a sample from a patient.

All of the compositions and methods disclosed and claimed herein can be made and executed without undue experimentation in light of the present disclosure. It will be apparent to those of skill in the art that variations may be applied to the compositions and methods and in the steps or in the sequence of steps of the method described herein without departing from the concept spirit and scope of the invention. More specifically it will be apparent that certain agents which are chemically or biologically related may be substituted for the agents described herein while the same or similar results would be achieved. All such similar substitutes and modifications apparent to those skilled in the art are deemed to be within the spirit scope and concept of the invention as defined by the appended claims.

The present invention is further defined in the following Examples. It should be understood that these Examples are given by way of illustration only. From the above discussion and these Examples one skilled in the art can ascertain the preferred features of this invention and without departing from the spirit and scope thereof can make various changes and modifications of the invention to adapt it to various uses and conditions.

The following abbreviations are here defined PLM1 N 4 cyano 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl 2 hydroxy 2 methyl 3 naphthalen 1 ylsulfonyl propanamide PLM2 3 2 benzylphenylsulfonyl N 4 cyano 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl 2 hydroxy 2 methylpropanamide PLM3 3 3 benzylphenylsulfonyl N 4 cyano 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl 2 hydroxy 2 methylpropanamide PLM4 3 2 phenylphenylsulfonyl N 4 cyano 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl 2 hydroxy 2 methylpropanamide PLM5 3 3 methoxyphenylsulfonyl N 4 cyano 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl 2 hydroxy 2 methylpropanamide PLM21 3 1 hydroxynaphthalen 5 ylsulfonyl N 4 cyano 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl 2 hydroxy 2 methylpropanamide PLM9 3 1 bromonaphthalen 4 ylsulfonyl N 4 cyano 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl 2 hydroxy 2 methylpropanamide PLM13 3 1 chloronaphthalen 4 ylsulfonyl N 4 cyano 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl 2 hydroxy 2 methylpropanamide PLM11 3 2 methylnaphthalen 1 ylsulfonyl N 4 cyano 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl 2 hydroxy 2 methylpropanamide PLM12 3 1 cyanonaphthalen 4 ylsulfonyl N 4 cyano 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl 2 hydroxy 2 methylpropanamide PLM54 3 1 phenylphenylsulfonyl N 4 cyano 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl 2 hydroxy 2 methylpropanamide PLM55 N 4 cyano 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl 2 hydroxy 2 methyl 3 naphthalen 2 ylsulfonyl propanamide PLM14 N 4 cyano 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl 2 hydroxy 3 4 3 hydroxypropyl naphthalen 1 ylsulfonyl 2 methylpropanamide PLM15 N 4 cyano 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl 2 hydroxy 3 5 3 hydroxypropyl naphthalen 1 ylsulfonyl 2 methylpropanamide PLM16 E methyl 3 4 3 4 cyano 3 trifluoromethyl phenylamino 2 hydroxy 2 methyl 3 oxopropylsulfonyl naphthalen 1 yl acrylate PLM18 E methyl 3 5 3 4 cyano 3 trifluoromethyl phenylamino 2 hydroxy 2 methyl 3 oxopropylsulfonyl naphthalen 1 yl acrylate PAN71 N 4 cyano 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl 3 2 2 5 dimethylbenzyl phenylsulfonyl 2 hydroxy 2 methylpropanamide PAN11 N 4 cyano 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl 2 hydroxy 3 2 2 hydroxybenzyl phenylsulfonyl 2 methylpropanamide PAN21 N 4 cyano 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl 2 hydroxy 3 2 3 hydroxybenzyl phenylsulfonyl 2 methylpropanamide PAN3 N 4 cyano 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl 2 hydroxy 3 2 4 hydroxybenzyl phenylsulfonyl 2 methylpropanamide PAN32 N 4 cyano 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl 3 2 4 cyanomethoxy benzyl phenylsulfonyl 2 hydroxy 2 methylpropanamide PAN33 N 4 cyano 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl 2 hydroxy 3 2 4 methoxybenzyl phenylsulfonyl 2 methylpropanamide PAN37 N 4 cyano 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl 2 hydroxy 3 2 4 methoxymethoxy benzyl phenylsulfonyl 2 methylpropanamide PAN41 N 4 cyano 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl 2 hydroxy 3 2 hydroxybiphenyl 2 ylsulfonyl 2 methylpropanamide PAN51 N 4 cyano 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl 2 hydroxy 3 3 hydroxybiphenyl 2 ylsulfonyl 2 methylpropanamide PAN61 N 4 cyano 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl 2 hydroxy 3 4 hydroxybiphenyl 2 ylsulfonyl 2 methylpropanamide.

To a stirred suspension of sodium hydride 60 dispersed in mineral oil 9.7 mg 0.242 mmol in THF 0.1 mL was added a solution of 1 naphthalenethiol 36.9 mg 0.23 mmol in THF 0.07 mL at 0 C. The mixture was stirred for 5 minutes. A solution of N 4 Cyano 3 trifluorophenyl methacrylamide epoxide 50 mg 0.185 mmol in THF 0.25 mL was added slowly. The reaction was allowed to warm to room temperature and stirred overnight. The reaction mixture was concentrated and then diluted with water and extracted with ethyl acetate 50 mL . The organic extract was washed with water 25 mL and brine 25 mL dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and evaporated. Purification by column chromatography hexane EtOAc 50 50 yielded 31 mg of desired product. Production of N 4 cyano 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl 2 hydroxy 2 methyl 3 naphthalen 1 ylthio propanamide was confirmed by 1 H NMR 13 C NMR and mass spectral analysis.

N 4 cyano 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl 2 hydroxy 2 methyl 3 naphthalen 1 ylthio propanamide 31 mg 0.072 mmol was dissolved in dichloromethane 0.2 mL and cooled to 78 C. 30 hydrogen peroxide 16.7 L 0.58 mmol was added followed by the slow addition of trifluoroacetic anhydride 62 L 0.43 mmol . The reaction was stirred at room temperature for 16 h. The reaction was diluted with dichloromethane. Cold water and brine were added and the reaction was stirred for 20 minutes. The organic layer was separated dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and evaporated. Purification by column chromatography hexane EtOAc 50 50 yielded 25 mg of desired product. Production of PLM1 was confirmed by 1 H NMR 13 C NMR and mass spectral analysis.

Concentrated hydrochloric acid 0.4 mL was added slowly to a solution of 2 benzylaniline 500 mg 2.73 mmol in water 7.3 mL at 0 C. A cooled solution of sodium nitrite 188 mg 2.73 mmol in water 1.5 mL was added and the mixture was stirred for 30 minutes. This solution was then added to a solution of potassium ethyl xanthate 525 mg 3.28 mmol in water 0.65 mL warmed to 45 C. The reaction mixture was stirred for an additional 30 minutes. Diethyl ether 25 mL was added and the organic layer was washed with 10 sodium hydroxide solution until neutral. The organic layer was dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and evaporated. The product was used directly in Example 4.

S 2 benzylphenyl O ethyl carbonodithioate 787 mg 2.72 mmol was dissolved in ethanol 8.2 mL and heated to reflux. Potassium hydroxide pellets 654 mg 11.65 mmol were added slowly and the solution was refluxed overnight. The solution was concentrated and the residue was diluted with water 10 mL and washed with diethyl ether 10 mL . The aqueous layer was acidified with 2 N HCl and extracted with diethyl ether. The organic extract was separated dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and evaporated to yield 289 mg of the crude thiol which was used directly in Example 5.

To a stirred suspension of sodium hydride 60 dispersed in mineral oil 11 mg 0.26 mmol in THF 0.11 mL was added slowly a solution of 2 benzylbenzenethiol 51 mg 0.25 mmol in THF 0.08 mL at 0 C. After stirring the mixture for 5 minutes a solution of N 4 Cyano 3 trifluorophenyl methacrylamide epoxide 55 mg 0.202 mmol in THF 0.28 mL was added slowly. The reaction was allowed to warm to room temperature and stirred overnight. The THF was evaporated. The mixture was diluted with water and extracted with ethyl acetate 50 mL . The organic layer was washed with water 25 mL and brine 25 mL dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and evaporated. Purification by column chromatography hexane EtOAc 50 50 yielded 32 mg of desired product. Production of 3 2 benzylphenylthio N 4 cyano 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl 2 hydroxy 2 methylpropanamide was confirmed by 1 H NMR 13 C NMR and mass spectral analysis.

3 2 benzylphenylthio N 4 cyano 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl 2 hydroxy 2 methylpropanamide 32 mg 0.068 mmol was dissolved in dichloromethane 0.1 mL and cooled to 78 C. 30 hydrogen peroxide 12 L 0.4 mmol was added followed by the slow addition of trifluoroacetic anhydride 48 L 0.34 mmol . The reaction was stirred at room temperature for 16 h. The reaction was diluted with dichloromethane. Cold water and brine were added and the reaction was stirred for 20 minutes. The organic layer was separated dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and evaporated. Purification by column chromatography hexane EtOAc 50 50 yielded 14 mg of desired product. Production of PLM2 was confirmed by 13 C NMR and mass spectral analysis.

Concentrated hydrochloric acid 0.2 mL was added slowly to a solution of 3 benzylaniline 250 mg 1.36 mmol in water 3.7 mL at 0 C. A cooled solution of sodium nitrite 94 mg 1.36 mmol in water 0.73 mL was added and the mixture was stirred for 30 minutes. This solution was then added to a solution of potassium ethyl xanthate 261 mg 1.63 mmol in water 0.33 mL at 45 C. The reaction mixture was stirred for an additional 30 minutes. Diethyl ether 25 mL was added and the organic layer was washed with 10 sodium hydroxide solution until neutral. The organic layer was dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and evaporated to afford the crude product which was used directly in Example 8.

S 3 benzylphenyl O ethyl carbonodithioate 392 mg 1.36 mmol was dissolved in ethanol 4.1 mL and heated to reflux. Once refluxing potassium hydroxide pellets 326 mg 5.81 mmol were added slowly and refluxing was continued overnight. The ethanol was evaporated. The residue was diluted with water 10 mL and washed with diethyl ether 10 mL . The aqueous layer was acidified with 2 N HCl and extracted with diethyl ether. The organic layer was separated dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and evaporated. Purification by column chromatography hexane EtOAc 95 5 yielded 44 mg of desired product which was used directly in Example 9.

To a stirred suspension of sodium hydride 60 dispersed in mineral oil 11 mg 0.26 mmol in THF 0.11 mL was added a solution of 3 benzylbenzenethiol 52 mg 0.26 mmol in THF 0.08 mL at 0 C. The mixture was stirred for 5 minutes. A solution of N 4 Cyano 3 trifluorophenyl methacrylamide epoxide 56 mg 0.207 mmol in THF 0.28 mL was added slowly. The reaction was allowed to warm to room temperature and stirred overnight. The THF was evaporated. The mixture was diluted with water and extracted with ethyl acetate 50 mL . The organic layer was washed with water 25 mL and brine 25 mL dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and evaporated. Purification by column chromatography hexane EtOAc 50 50 yielded 15.5 mg of desired product. Production of 3 3 benzylphenylthio N 4 cyano 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl 2 hydroxy 2 methylpropanamide was confirmed by 1 H NMR 13 C NMR and mass spectral analysis.

3 3 benzylphenylthio N 4 cyano 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl 2 hydroxy 2 methylpropanamide 15 mg 0.033 mmol was dissolved in dichloromethane 0.05 mL and cooled to 78 C. 30 hydrogen peroxide 5.7 L 0.2 mmol was added followed by the slow addition of trifluoroacetic anhydride 23 L 0.17 mmol . The reaction was stirred at room temperature for 16 h. The reaction was diluted with dichloromethane. Cold water and brine were added and the reaction was stirred for 20 minutes. The organic layer was separated dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and evaporated. Purification by column chromatography hexane EtOAc 50 50 yielded 11 mg of desired product. Production of PLM3 was confirmed by 1 H NMR 13 C NMR and mass spectral analysis.

3 nitrobiphenyl 500 mg 2.5 mmol and 10 palladium on carbon 267 mg 2.5 mmol were dissolved in methanol 1 mL and purged with nitrogen and placed under an atmosphere of hydrogen overnight. The reaction mixture was filtered and evaporated to yield 326 mg of the desired amine which was used directly in Example 12.

Concentrated hydrochloric acid 0.26 mL was added to a solution of 3 aminobiphenyl 326 mg 1.82 mmol in water 4.9 mL at 0 C. A cooled solution of sodium nitrite 125 mg 1.82 mmol in water 0.98 mL was added and the mixture was stirred for 30 minutes. This solution was then added to a solution of potassium ethyl xanthate 350 mg 2.18 mmol in water 0.44 mL warmed to 45 C. The reaction mixture was stirred for an additional 30 minutes. Diethyl ether 25 mL was added and the organic layer was washed with 10 sodium hydroxide solution followed by water until neutral. The organic layer was dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and evaporated. The crude product was used directly in Example 13.

To a refluxing solution of S 3 phenylphenyl O ethyl carbonodithioate 543 mg 1.82 mmol in ethanol 5.5 mL was added slowly potassium hydroxide pellets 436 mg 7.77 mmol . After refluxing overnight the solvent was evaporated. The residue was diluted with water 10 mL and washed with diethyl ether 10 mL . The aqueous layer was acidified with 2 N HCl and extracted with diethyl ether. The organic layer was separated dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and evaporated to yield 171 mg of the crude thiol that was used directly in Example 14.

To a stirred suspension of sodium hydride 60 dispersed in mineral oil 9.7 mg 0.24 mmol in THF 0.1 mL was added a solution of 3 phenylbenzenethiol 46 mg 0.23 mmol in THF 0.08 mL at 0 C. The mixture was stirred for 5 minutes. N 4 Cyano 3 trifluorophenyl methacrylamide epoxide 50 mg 0.185 mmol was dissolved in THF 0.25 mL and added slowly. The reaction was allowed to warm to room temperature and stirred overnight. The THF was evaporated. The mixture was diluted with water and extracted with ethyl acetate 50 mL . The organic layer was washed with water 25 mL and brine 25 mL dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and evaporated. Purification by column chromatography hexane EtOAc 50 50 yielded 41 mg of desired product. Production of 3 2 phenylphenylthio N 4 cyano 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl 2 hydroxy 2 methylpropanamide was confirmed by 1 H NMR 13 C NMR and mass spectral analysis.

To a solution of 3 2 phenylphenylthio N 4 cyano 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl 2 hydroxy 2 methylpropanamide 41 mg 0.093 mmol in dichloromethane 0.13 mL at 78 C. was added 30 hydrogen peroxide 15.5 L 0.54 mmol followed by the slow addition of trifluoroacetic anhydride 63 L 0.45 mmol . The reaction was stirred at room temperature for 16 h. The reaction was diluted with dichloromethane. Cold water and brine were added and the reaction was stirred for 20 minutes. The organic layer was separated dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and evaporated. Purification by column chromatography hexane EtOAc 50 50 yielded 23 mg of desired product. Production of PLM4 was confirmed by 1 H NMR and 13 C NMR.

To a stirred suspension of sodium hydride 60 dispersed in mineral oil 17 my 0.43 mmol in THF 0.18 mL was added a solution of 3 methoxythiophenol 51 L 0.41 mmol in THF 0.13 mL at 0 C. After 5 minutes a solution of N 4 Cyano 3 trifluorophenyl methacrylamide epoxide 88 mg 0.33 mmol in THF 0.45 mL was added slowly. The reaction was allowed to warm to room temperature and stirred overnight. The solvent was evaporated. The residue was diluted with water and extracted with ethyl acetate 50 mL . The organic layer was washed with water 25 mL and brine 25 mL dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and evaporated. Purification by column chromatography hexane EtOAc 50 50 yielded 55 mg of desired product. Production of 3 3 methoxyphenylthio N 4 cyano 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl 2 hydroxy 2 methylpropanamide was confirmed by 1 H NMR and mass spectral analysis.

To a solution of 3 3 methoxyphenylthio N 4 cyano 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl 2 hydroxy 2 methylpropanamide 29 mg 0.07 mmol in dichloromethane 0.18 mL at 78 C. was added 30 hydrogen peroxide 16 L 0.57 mmol followed by the slow addition of trifluoroacetic an hydride 60 L 0.45 mmol . The reaction was stirred at room temperature for 16 h. The reaction was diluted with dichloromethane. Cold water and brine were added and the reaction was stirred for 20 minutes. The organic layer was separated dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and evaporated. Purification by column chromatography hexane EtOAc 50 50 yielded 19 mg of desired product. Production of PLM5 was confirmed by 1 H NMR 13 C NMR and mass spectral analysis.

To a solution of 2 aminobiphenyl 250 mg 1.47 mmol in water 3.9 mL at 0 C. was added concentrated hydrochloric acid 0.2 mL . A solution of sodium nitrite 102 mg 1.47 mmol in water 0.8 mL at 0 C. was added and the mixture was stirred for 30 minutes. This solution was then added to a solution of potassium ethyl xanthate 284 mg 1.8 mmol in water 0.36 mL at 45 C. The reaction mixture was stirred for an additional 30 minutes. Diethyl ether 25 mL was added and the organic layer was washed with 10 sodium hydroxide solution followed by water until neutral. The organic layer was dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and evaporated. The crude product was used directly in Example 19.

To a refluxing solution of S 2 benzylphenyl O ethyl carbonodithioate 405 mg 1.47 mmol in ethanol 4.5 mL was added slowly potassium hydroxide pellets 354 mg 6.3 mmol . After refluxing overnight the solvent was evaporated. The residue was diluted with water 10 mL and extracted with diethyl ether 10 mL . The aqueous layer was acidified with 2 N HCl and washed with diethyl ether. The organic layer was separated dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and evaporated to yield 105 mg of the crude thiol that was used directly in Example 20.

To a stirred suspension of sodium hydride 60 dispersed in mineral oil 12 mg 0.31 mmol in THF 0.1 mL was added a solution of 2 phenylbenzenethiol 38 mg 0.3 mmol in THF 0.1 mL at 0 C. After 5 minutes a solution of N 4 Cyano 3 trifluorophenyl methacrylamide epoxide 64 mg 0.24 mmol in THF 0.33 mL was added slowly. The reaction was allowed to warm to room temperature and stirred overnight. The solvent was evaporated. The residue was diluted with water and extracted with ethyl acetate 50 mL . The organic layer was washed with water 25 mL and brine 25 mL dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and evaporated. Purification by column chromatography hexane EtOAc 50 50 yielded 85 mg of desired product.

To a solution of 3 1 phenylphenylthio N 4 cyano 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl 2 hydroxy 2 methylpropanamide 85 mg 0.21 mmol in dichloromethane 0.3 mL at 78 C. was added 30 hydrogen peroxide 0.036 mL 1.26 mmol followed by the slow addition of trifluoroacetic anhydride 0.151 mL 1.07 mmol . The reaction was stirred at room temperature for 16 h. The reaction was diluted with dichloromethane. Cold water and brine were added and the reaction was stirred for 20 minutes. The organic layer was separated dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and evaporated. Purification by column chromatography hexane EtOAc 50 50 yielded 41 mg of desired product.

To a stirred suspension of sodium hydride 60 dispersed in mineral oil 26 mg 0.65 mmol in THF 0.27 mL was added a solution of 2 naphthalenethiol 100 mg 0.62 mmol in THF 0.2 mL at 0 C. After 5 minutes a solution of N 4 Cyano 3 trifluorophenyl methacrylamide epoxide 134 mg 0.50 mmol in THF 0.7 mL was added slowly. The reaction was allowed to warm to room temperature and stirred overnight. The solvent was evaporated. The residue was diluted with water and extracted with ethyl acetate 50 mL . The organic layer was washed with water 25 mL and brine 25 mL dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and evaporated. Purification by column chromatography hexane EtOAc 50 50 yielded 63 mg of desired product. Production of N 4 cyano 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl 2 hydroxy 2 methyl 3 naphthalen 2 ylthio propanamide was confirmed by 1 H NMR and 13 C NMR.

To a solution of N 4 cyano 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl 2 hydroxy 2 methyl 3 naphthalen 3 ylsulfonyl propanamide 63 mg 0.15 mmol in dichloromethane 0.4 mL and at 78 C. was added 30 hydrogen peroxide 25 L 0.88 mmol followed by the slow addition of trifluoroacetic anhydride 0.1 mL 0.74 mmol . The reaction was stirred at room temperature for 16 h and then diluted with dichloromethane. Cold water and brine were added and the reaction was stirred for 20 minutes. The organic layer was separated dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and evaporated. Purification by column chromatography hexane EtOAc 50 50 yielded 22 mg of desired product.

To a solution of 1 amino 4 bromonaphthalene 150 mg 0.68 mmol in water 1.8 mL at 0 C. was added concentrated hydrochloric acid 0.1 mL . A solution of sodium nitrite 47 mg 0.68 mmol in water 0.36 mL at 0 C. was added and the mixture was stirred for 30 minutes. This solution was then added to a solution of potassium ethyl xanthate 130 mg 0.81 mmol in water 0.16 mL at 45 C. The reaction mixture was stirred for an additional 30 minutes. Diethyl ether 25 mL was added and the organic layer was washed with 10 sodium hydroxide solution followed by water until neutral. The organic layer was dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and evaporated. The crude product was used directly in Example 25.

To a refluxing solution of S 1 bromonaphthalen 4 yl O ethyl carbonodithioate 188 mg 0.57 mmol in ethanol 1.7 mL was added slowly potassium hydroxide pellets 138 mg 2.4 mmol . After refluxing overnight the solvent was evaporated. The residue was diluted with water 10 mL and extracted with diethyl ether 10 mL . The aqueous layer was acidified with 2 N HCl and washed with diethyl ether. The organic layer was separated dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and evaporated to yield 75 mg of the crude thiol that was used directly in Example 26.

To a stirred suspension of sodium hydride 60 dispersed in mineral oil 2.8 mg 0.07 mmol in THF 0.03 mL was added a solution of 4 bromonaphthalene 1 thiol 16 mg 0.07 mmol in THF 0.2 mL at 0 C. The mixture was stirred for 5 minutes before a solution of N 4 Cyano 3 trifluorophenyl methacrylamide epoxide 14 mg 0.05 mmol dissolved in THF 0.07 mL was added slowly. The reaction was allowed to warm to room temperature and stirred overnight. The solvent was evaporated. The mixture was diluted with water and extracted with ethyl acetate 50 mL . The organic layer was washed with water 25 mL and brine 25 mL dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and evaporated. Purification by column chromatography hexane EtOAc 50 50 yielded 13 mg of desired product.

To a solution of 3 1 bromonaphthalen 4 ylthio N 4 cyano 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl 2 hydroxy 2 methylpropanamide 13 mg 0.025 mmol in dichloromethane 0.06 mL at 78 C. was added 30 hydrogen peroxide 4.4 L 0.155 mmol followed by the slow addition of trifluoroacetic anhydride 18 L 0.13 mmol . The reaction was stirred at room temperature for 16 h before the reaction was diluted with dichloromethane. Cold water and brine were added and the reaction was stirred for 20 minutes. The organic layer was separated dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and evaporated. Purification by column chromatography hexane EtOAc 50 50 yielded 9 mg of desired product.

The precursor 3 1 aminonaphthalen 4 yl propan 1 ol was first prepared as follows To a 0 C. solution of 4 allylnaphthalen 1 amine 1830 mg 9.73 mmol derived from palladium catalyzed allylation of 1 amino bromonapthalene with allyl tributyl tin in 19 mL of THF was added 1 M BH 14.6 mL 14.6 mMol . The reaction mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 30 min warmed to room temperature and stirred for an additional 2 h. The reaction mixture was cooled to 0 C. and 3M NaOH 3.6 mL and 30 HO 1.14 mL were added. The reaction mixture was stirred for 30 min at 0 C. and then heated to 60 C. and stirred for an additional 1 h. The solvent was evaporated under reduced pressure and the resulting residue was diluted with water and extracted with EtOAc 2 40 mL . The combined organic extracts were washed with water 50 mL and brine 50 mL dried over MgSO filtered and evaporated under reduced pressure. The product was purified by flash column chromatography on silica gel 5 EtOAC 70 EtOAc Hexanes to yield 5 1040 mg 52 as a colorless oil. HRMS Cl calculated for CHNO H 202.1232 found 202.1228. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 8.03 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 7.87 d J 7.2 Hz 1H 7.54 7.45 m 2H 7.14 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 6.71 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 4.07 bs 2H 3.70 t J 6.4 Hz 2H 3.05 t J 7.6 Hz 2H 2.14 bs OH 1.96 p J 6.4 Hz 2H . C NMR CDCl 400 MHz 140.4 132.3 128.5 126.2 125.6 124.4 124.4 124.2 121.4 109.6 62.3 33.5 28.7.

3 1 aminonaphthalen 4 yl propan 1 ol was then converted to 3 1 mercaptonaphthalen 4 yl propan 1 ol by diazotization followed by substitution with ethylxanthate and subsequent hydrolysis as following the general procedure described in Examples 12 and 13.

To a stirred suspension of 1.31 equiv. of sodium hydride 60 dispersed in mineral oil in THF at 0 C. was added a solution of 1.26 equiv. of 3 1 mercaptonaphthalen 4 yl propan 1 ol dissolved in THF and stirred for 5 minutes. A solution of 1 equiv. of N 4 Cyano 3 trifluorophenyl methacrylamide epoxide in THF was added to the reaction mixture. The reaction was allowed to warm to room temperature and stir overnight. The solvent was evaporated. The residue was diluted with water and extracted with EtOAc 3 50 mL . The organic extracts were washed with water brine dried over MgSO filtered and evaporated under reduced pressure. The resulting crude product was purified by flash column chromatography on silica gel 50 EtOAc Hexane to yield 42 of N 4 cyano 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl 2 hydroxy 3 1 3 hydroxypropyl naphthalene 4 yl sulfanyl 2 methylpropanamide as a colorless oil.

PLM14 was made from the oxidation of N 4 cyano 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl 2 hydroxy 3 1 3 hydroxypropyl naphthalene 4 yl sulfanyl 2 methylpropanamide following the general procedure for PLM1 to give 11 mg 44 of desired product as a white solid. HRMS ESI calculated for CHFNOS Na 543.1178 found 543.1179 H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 9.24 bs NH 8.71 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 8.17 8.12 m 2H 7.97 s 1H 7.81 7.70 m 4H 7.32 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 5.23 s OH 4.42 t J 6.4 Hz 2H 4.24 d J 14.4 Hz 1H 3.64 d J 14.4 Hz 1H 3.22 dp J 42.4 7.6 Hz 2H 2.18 p J 6.4 Hz 2H 1.59 s 3H . C NMR CDCl 400 MHz 171.6 145.6 141.3 135.6 132.8 132.3 130.1 129.0 128.9 127.6 124.6 124.4 124.3 123.4 121.9 120.7 117.2 115.4 104.5 74.6 67.0 61.1 29.3 28.6 27.7.

The precursor N 4 cyano 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl 2 hydroxy 3 1 3 hydroxypropyl naphthalene 5 yl sulfanyl 2 methylpropanamide was prepared as follows To a solution of 1.31 equiv. of sodium hydride 60 dispersed in mineral oil in THF at 0 C. was added a solution of 1.26 equiv. of 3 1 mercaptonaphthalen 5 yl propan 1 ol prepared analogously to 3 1 aminonaphthalen 4 yl propan 1 ol in example 28 dissolved in THF 0.2 mL and stirred for 5 minutes. A solution of 1 equiv. of N 4 Cyano 3 trifluorophenyl methacrylamide epoxide 50 mg 0.185 mmol in THF 0.7 ml was added to the reaction mixture. The reaction was allowed to warm to room temperature and stir overnight. Standard workup afforded the desired product in 37 yield. HRMS ESI calculated for CHFNOS Na 511.1279 found 511.1278. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 8.99 bs NH 8.30 d J 8.8 Hz 1H 7.85 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 7.72 s 1H 7.68 d J 7.2 Hz 1H 7.57 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 7.50 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 7.39 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.30 7.26 m 2H 4.14 s OH 3.85 d J 13.6 Hz 1H 3.70 t J 6.4 Hz 2H 3.18 d J 14.4 Hz 1H 3.01 sent J 8.0 Hz 2H 2.14 bs OH 1.90 p J 2.8 Hz 2H 1.52 s 3H . C NMR CDCl3 400 MHz 173.1 141.0 138.8 135.3 133.6 132.2 131.5 130.6 126.4 126.3 125.2 124.2 123.3 123.3 121.3 120.6 116.8 115.6 103.7 75.3 62.1 45.4 33.2 29.1 26.1.

PLM15 was made from the oxidation of N 4 cyano 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl 2 hydroxy 3 1 3 hydroxypropyl naphthalene 5 yl sulfanyl 2 methylpropanamide following the general procedure for PLM1 to give 42 mg 40 of desired product as a white solid. HRMS ESI calculated for CHFNOS Na 543.1178 found 543.1186. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 9.15 bs NH 8.59 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 8.29 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 8.23 d J 7.2 Hz 1H 7.93 s 1H 7.79 7.70 m 3H 7.53 d J 7.2 Hz 1H 7.47 t J 8.0 Hz 1H 5.29 s OH 4.44 t J 6.4 Hz 2H 4.24 d J 14.4 Hz 1H 3.64 d J 14.4 Hz 1H 3.25 t J 7.2 Hz 2H 2.21 p J 6.8 Hz 2H 1.59 s 3H . C NMR CDCl 400 MHz 173.4 141.1 138.1 135.7 134.8 132.5 131.2 130.0 129.3 129.0 127.9 124.2 123.3 122.4 121.8 120.7 117.3 115.4 104.9 74.6 67.1 60.8 29.2 29.1 27.7.

The precursor 1 amino 4 bromonaphthalene was converted to 1 thiol 4 bromonaphthalene by diazotization followed by substitution with ethylxanthate and subsequent hydrolysis following the general procedure described in Examples 12 and 13.

The precursor E methyl 3 1 2 4 cyano 3 trifluoromethyl phenylcarbamoyl 2 hydroxypropylthio naphthalene 4 yl acrylate was prepared as follows To a solution of 1 thiol 4 bromonaphthalene 40 mg 0.079 mmol triphenylphosphine 3.4 mg 0.013 mmol palladium II acetate 1 mg 0.0044 mmol and triethylamine 36 L 0.26 mmol in 0.5 mL DMF was added methyl acrylate 9.2 L 0.1 mmol . The reaction was heated to 90 C. overnight. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature diluted with water 10 mL and extracted with EtOAc 2 10 mL . The combined organic extracts were washed with water 10 mL and brine 10 mL dried over MgSO filtered and evaporated. The resulting crude product was purified by flash column chromatography on silica gel 10 50 EtOAc Hexanes to yield 21 mg 53 of desired product as a brown oil. HRMS ESI calculated for CHFNOS Na 537.1072 found 537.1072. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 8.83 bs NH 8.44 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 8.30 d J 15.6 Hz 1H 8.06 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.70 7.50 m 7H 6.33 d J 15.6 Hz 1H 3.94 d J 14.0 Hz 1H 3.87 s 3H 3.22 d J 14.0 Hz 1H 2.45 s OH 1.55 s 3H . C NMR CDCl 400 MHz 172.8 166.9 140.9 140.6 135.5 133.5 133.2 132.1 131.6 130.0 127.2 127.1 125.3 124.2 124.2 123.3 121.2 121.0 120.6 116.7 115.3 104.3 75.3 51.9 44.9 26.3.

PLM16 was made from the oxidation of E methyl 3 1 2 4 cyano 3 trifluoromethyl phenylcarbamoyl 2 hydroxypropylthio naphthalene 4 yl acrylate following the general procedure for PLM1 to give 14 mg 64 of desired product as a brown oil. HRMS ESI calculated for CHFNOS Na 569.0970 found 569.0990. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 9.02 bs NH 8.73 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 8.40 d 15.6 Hz 1H 8.29 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 8.24 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 7.89 7.77 m 4H 7.67 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 7.59 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 6.37 d J 15.6 Hz 1H 5.25 s OH 4.29 d J 14.4 Hz 1H 3.92 s 3H 3.63 d J 15.6 Hz 1H 1.60 s 3H . C NMR CDCl 400 MHz 171.1 161.1 140.9 140.0 139.9 135.7 134.6 132.0 129.8 129.6 129.0 128.2 125.1 124.5 124.1 123.3 122.7 121.6 120.6 117.0 115.2 105.1 74.4 60.6 52.2 27.9.

The precursor 3 1 bromonaphthalen 5 ylthio N 4 cyano 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl 2 hydroxy 2 methylpropanamide was prepared as follows To a suspension of 1.31 equiv. of sodium hydride 60 dispersed in mineral oil in THF at 0 C. was added a solution of 1.26 equiv. of 5 bromonaphthalen 1 thiol dissolved in THF and stirred for 5 minutes. A solution of 1 equiv. of N 4 Cyano 3 trifluorophenyl methacrylamide epoxide in THF was added to the reaction mixture. The reaction was allowed to warm to room temperature and was stirred overnight. Standard workup followed by chromatography afforded 29 mg 71 3 1 bromonaphthalen 5 ylthio N 4 cyano 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl 2 hydroxy 2 methylpropanamide as a brown oil. HRMS ESI calculated for CHBrFNOS Na 530.9966 found 530.9981. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 8.78 bs NH 8.30 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 8.03 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.77 d J 7.2 Hz 1H 7.69 d J 7.2 Hz 1H 7.60 7.52 m 2H 7.42 7.32 m 3H 3.92 d J 14.0 Hz 1H 3.71 s OH 3.15 d J 14.4 Hz 1H 1.52 s 3H . C NMR d6 Acetone 400 MHz 174.7 134.5 136.7 135.2 135.0 132.9 131.4 131.2 127.9 127.5 126.8 126.1 124.9 123.5 122.9 122.1 117.9 116.3 104.0 76.5 46.1 26.5

The precursor E methyl 3 1 2 4 cyano 3 trifluoromethyl phenylcarbamoyl 2 hydroxypropylthio naphthalene 5 yl acrylate was prepared as follows To a solution of 3 1 bromonaphthalen 5 ylthio N 4 cyano 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl 2 hydroxy 2 methylpropanamide triphenylphosphine palladium II acetate and triethylamine in DMF was added methyl acrylate. The reaction was heated to 90 C. overnight. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature diluted with water and extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic extracts were washed with water and brine dried over MgSOfiltered and evaporated. The resulting crude product was purified by flash column chromatography on silica gel 10 50 EtOAc Hexanes to yield 21 mg 51 of desired product as a brown oil. HRMS ESI calculated for CHFNOS Na 537 1072 found 537 1098. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 8.83 bs NH 8.50 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 8.34 d J 15.6 Hz 1H 8.00 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 7.78 d J 6.8 Hz 1H 7.67 7.61 m 3H 7.53 t J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.39 t J 8.0 Hz 1H 6.45 d J 15.6 Hz 1H 3.90 d J 14.0 Hz 1H 3.87 s 3H 3.69 s OH 3.19 d J 14.0 Hz 1H 1.53 s 3H . C NMR CDCl 400 MHz 172.7 166.9 141.0 140.8 135.4 133.6 132.7 131.9 131.8 131.5 127.0 126.4 126.2 125.3 124.2 123.3 121.3 121.2 120.6 116.7 115.3 104.3 75.3 52.0 45.6 26.2.

PLM18 was made from the oxidation of E methyl 3 1 2 4 cyano 3 trifluoromethyl phenylcarbamoyl 2 hydroxypropylthio naphthalene 5 yl acrylate following the general procedure for PLM1 to give 25 mg 54 of desired product as a brown oil. HRMS ESI calculated for CHFNOS Na 569.0970 found 569.0989. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 9.06 bs NH 8.73 d J 8.8 Hz 1H 8.46 s 1H 8.44 d J 15.6 Hz 1H 8.27 d J 7.2 Hz 1H 7.89 7.70 m 5H 7.52 t J 8.0 Hz 1H 6.72 d J 15.6 Hz 1H 5.19 bs OH 4.22 d J 14.4 Hz 1H 3.89 s 3H 3.63 d J 14.4 Hz 1H 1.59 s 3H . C NMR CDCl 400 MHz 6171.3 166.7 140.9 140.7 135.8 134.7 133.7 132.1 131.5 130.6 129.4 129.0 126.4 125.3 124.9 123.3 122.8 121.8 120.7 117.2 115.3 105.1 74.6 60.9 52.0 27.7.

To a solution of 30.8 g 2 4 6 trimethoxyphenyl methanol 155.4 mmol and 29.2 g 2 bromobenzenethiol 155.4 mmol in 150 ml DCM at 0 C. was added dropwise 1.3 eq TFA. The reaction was stirred 15 minutes at room temperature before saturated NaHCOwas added until neutral. The organic volatiles were removed under reduced pressure and the aqueous residue was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 150 ml . The organic layer was collected washed with brine and dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure afforded a yellowish solid. The solid was washed with ethyl acetate to yield 51.3 g white solid 2 bromophenyl 2 4 6 trimethoxybenzyl sulfane 13.9 mmol 89 yield .

To a solution of 4.22 g 2 bromophenyl 2 4 6 trimethoxybenzyl sulfane 11.56 mmol in 150 ml dry THF at 78 C. was added slowly 5.6 ml 2.5M n BuLi. The solution was stirred at 78 C. for 25 minutes. 1.6 ml B OMe was added at 78 C. The reaction was stirred 2 hours at RT. 100 ml water was added stirred overnight. The mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 100 ml . The organic layer was washed with brine dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated. Purification by gradient chromatography hexane ethyl acetate 60 40 yielded 1.762 g product 5.3 mmol 46 yield .

To a mixture of 1.05 g 2 2 4 6 trimethoxybenzylthio phenylboronic acid 3.14 mmol 1.07 g 3 iodophenol 4.9 mmol and 0.195 g Pd catalyst was added 40 ml toluene followed by 15 ml 2M NaCO. The mixture was refluxed under nitrogen overnight. The mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic was washed with water brine dried over magnesium sulfate and concentrated. The residue was purified by silica flash chromatography hexane ethyl acetate 80 20 to afford 0.948 g product 2.48 mmol 79 yield .

2 2 4 6 trimethoxybenzylthio biphenyl 3 ol 0.948 g 2.48 mmol was treated with TFA triethylsilane DCM 8 ml 3 ml 80 ml . The solution was stirred 30 min. before 40 ml water was added and the mixture was extracted with DCM 2 80 ml . The organic was washed with water brine dried over magnesium sulfate and concentrated. The residue was purified by silica flash chromatography hexane ethyl acetate 80 20 to afford 0.335 g product 1.66 mmol 67 yield .

To a solution of 0.335 g 2 mercaptobiphenyl 3 ol 1.66 mmol 0.432 g N 4 cyano 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl 2 methyloxirane 2 carboxamide 1.59 mmol in 4 ml ethanol was added 0.6 ml triethylamine. The mixture was stirred overnight at ambient temperature before concentrating under reduced pressure. The residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate washed with water brine dried over magnesium sulfate and concentrated. A solution of the unrefined product in 10 mL of DCM was treated with 0.77 g mCPBA 3.1 mmol . The mixture was stirred overnight and concentrated. The residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate washed with water brine dried over magnesium sulfate and concentrated. Purification by flash chromatography hexane ethyl acetate 50 50 to afford 0.389 g product 0.77 mmol 46 yield for two steps . Production of PAN41 was confirmed by 1 H NMR and 13 C NMR. See for general synthesis scheme for precursors of PAN41 PAN51 and PAN61. See for the general PAN41 PAN51 and PAN61 synthesis strategy. Production of both PAN51 and PAN61 was confirmed by 1 H NMR and 13 C NMR.

To a solution of 5.4 g 2 bromoanisole in 200 ml THF at 78 C. was added dropwise 1.2 eq of n BuLi. 1.2 eq of N methoxy N methyl 2 methylthio benzamide in THF was added and the reaction was warmed to RT and stirred for an additional 1 h. Water 100 ml was added and the mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic extracts were washed with brine dried over magnesium sulfate and concentrated. Silica flash chromatography hexane ethyl acetate 80 20 afforded 7.2 g of a pale yellow solid product 27.9 mmol 96 yield .

To a mixture of 1.45 g 2 methoxyphenyl 2 methylthio phenyl methanone G and 1.437 g AlClwas added slowly 5 mL 1 dodecanethiol. The reaction was stirred overnight before 30 ml water was added. The mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate and the combined organic extracts were washed with brine dried over magnesium sulfate and the volatiles removed by distillation under nitrogen. Flash silica chromatography hexane ethyl acetate 80 20 afforded 0.807 g product 3.31 mmol 60 yield .

To a mixture of 0.337 g 2 hydroxyphenyl 2 methylthio phenyl methanone H 1.38 mmol and 0.5 ml triethylsilane was added 2 ml TFA. After 1 h water was added and the mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic extracts were dried over magnesium sulfate and concentrated. Flash silica chromatography hexane ethyl acetate 80 20 afforded 0.235 g product 1.02 mmol 74 yield .

To a solution of 0.68 g 2 2 methylthio benzyl phenol 1 2.96 mmol in 4 ml freshly distilled THF at 78 C. was added 8 mL condensed ammonia followed by 0.15 g sodium. The blue solution was stirred for 2 hours at 78 C. before the mixture was warmed to ambient temperature. The reaction was allowed to stir overnight before NHCl was added until neutral. The mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate and the combined organic extracts washed with brine dried over magnesium sulfate and concentrated. Flash silica chromatography hexane ethyl acetate 80 20 afforded 0.457 g product 2.12 mmol 71 yield .

To a solution of 0.237 g 2 2 mercaptobenzyl phenol J and 1.1 mmol 0.284 g N 4 cyano 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl 2 methyloxirane 2 carboxamide 1.05 mmol in 4 ml ethanol was added 0.2 ml triethylamine. The reaction was stirred overnight and then concentrated. The residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate washed with water brine dried over magnesium sulfate and concentrated. Without further purification the residue was treated with 0.6 g mCPBA 2.4 mmol in 10 ml DCM. The mixture was stirred overnight and concentrated. The residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate washed with water brine dried over magnesium sulfate and concentrated. Purification by silica flash chromatography hexane ethyl acetate 50 50 afforded 0.204 g product 0.39 mmol 39 yield for two steps . Production of PAN11 was confirmed by 1 H NMR and 13 C NMR. See for the general PAN11 synthesis strategy.

To a solution of 0.35 g 2 bromophenyl 2 4 6 trimethoxybenzyl sulfane 0.96 mmol in dry THF was added slowly 1.2 eq n BuLi. The reaction was stirred 25 minutes at 78 C. before 1.2 eq 3 methoxybenzaldehyde was added slowly. The reaction was warmed to ambient temperature and stirred for one additional hour before the addition of water. The mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic extracts were washed with brine dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated. Flash silica chromatography hexane ethyl acetate 80 20 afforded 0.288 g product 0.68 mmol 70 yield .

0.288 g 3 methoxyphenyl 2 2 4 6 trimethoxybenzylthio phenyl methanol K 0.68 mmol was treated with a solution of triethylsilane TFA DCM 0.3 ml 1 ml 10 ml. The mixture was stirred overnight at ambient temperature before the addition of water. The mixture was extracted with DCM brine dried over magnesium sulfate and concentrated. Flash silica chromatography hexane ethyl acetate 90 10 afforded 0.12 g product 0.52 mmol 77 yield .

To a mixture of 0.61 g 2 3 methoxybenzyl benzenethiol L 2.65 mmol and 1.94 g AlClwas added slowly 1.2 eq n BuLi. The reaction was stirred overnight before 30 ml water was added. The mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic extracts were washed with brine and dried over magnesium sulfate. The volatiles were removed by distillation under nitrogen. Flash silica chromatography hexane ethyl acetate 80 20 afforded 0.23 g product 1.06 mmol 40 yield .

To a solution of 0.23 g 3 2 mercaptobenzyl phenol M 1.0 mmol 0.26 g N 4 cyano 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl 2 methyloxirane 2 carboxamide 0.95 mmol in 4 ml ethanol was added 0.2 ml triethylamine. The reaction was stirred overnight before concentrating. The residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate washed with water brine dried over magnesium sulfate and concentrated. The crude product was dissolved in 10 ml DCM and treated with 0.3 g mCPBA 1.8 mmol . The mixture was stirred overnight and concentrated. The residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate washed with water brine dried over magnesium sulfate and concentrated. Purification by chromatography hexane ethyl acetate 50 50 to afford 0.18 g product 0.35 mmol 35 yield for two steps . Production of PAN21 was confirmed by 1 H NMR and 13 C NMR. See for the general PAN21 synthesis strategy.

To a mixture of 1.788 g 2 methylthio benzoyl chloride B 9.58 mmol and 1.6 g AlClat 0 C. was added slowly 20 ml DCM. The mixture was stirred 5 minutes at ambient temperature before 2 g anisole was added slowly. The reaction was stirred 30 minutes at ambient temperature and before water was added slowly. The mixture was extracted with DCM 2 50 ml . The combined organic extracts were washed with brine dried over magnesium sulfate and concentrated. Flash silica chromatography hexane ethyl acetate 85 15 afforded 1.85 g pale yellow solid product 7.17 mmol 75 yield .

To a nitrogen flushed mixture of 1.415 g 4 methoxyphenyl 2 methylthio phenyl methanone C 5.48 mmol and 3 g sodium thiolate 26.6 mmol was added 40 ml anhydrous DMF. The mixture was refluxed under nitrogen. After the mixture turned to black the reaction was refluxed for two more hours cooled to RT and quenched with water. The mixture was washed ethyl acetate 2 100 ml . The combined organic was brined dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated. Flash column hexane ethyl acetate 80 20 yield 0.954 g product 4.0 mmol 73 yield .

To a mixture of 0.954 g 4 hydroxyphenyl 2 mercaptophenyl methanone D 4.0 mmol 1 ml triethylsilane was added 5 ml TFA. The mixture was stirred at ambient temperature for 1 hour before water was added. The reaction mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 70 ml brine dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated. Flash silica chromatography hexane ethyl acetate 80 20 afforded 0.786 g product 3.5 mmol 88 yield .

A solution of 1.12 g 4 2 mercaptobenzyl phenol E 5.18 mmol 1.34 g N 4 cyano 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl 2 methyloxirane 2 carboxamide 4.9 mmol in 8 ml ethanol was treated with 1 ml triethylamine. After reaction at ambient temperature overnight the mixture was concentrated and the residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate washed with water brine dried over magnesium sulfate and concentrated. Without further purification the residue was dissolved in 30 ml DCM and treated with 3.85 g mCPBA 15.5 mmol . The mixture was stirred overnight and concentrated. The residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate washed with water brine dried over magnesium sulfate and concentrated. Purification by silica flash chromatography hexane ethyl acetate 50 50 afforded 0.47 g product 0.91 mmol 18 yield for two steps . Production of PAN31 was confirmed by 1 H NMR and 13 C NMR. See for the general PAN31 synthesis strategy.

To a mixture of 0.115 g PAN31 and 50 mg potassium carbonate in 2 ml dry DMF was added 0.2 ml ClCHCN was stirred overnight at RT. Water was added. The mixture was washed with ethyl acetate brine dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated. Flash silica chromatography hexane ethyl acetate 40 60 afforded 77 mg product. Production of PAN32 was confirmed by 1 H NMR and 13 C NMR.

To a mixture of 0.1 g PAN31 and 50 mg potassium carbonate in 2 ml dry DMF was added 0.2 ml methyl iodide. The reaction mixture was stirred overnight at ambient temperature before water was added. The mixture was washed with ethyl acetate and brine dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated. Flash silica chromatography hexane ethyl acetate 40 60 afforded 65 mg product. Production of PAN33 was confirmed by 1 H NMR and 13 C NMR.

The mixture of 0.1 g PAN31 50 mg potassium carbonate in 2 ml dry DMF was treated with 0.1 ml methoxymethylchloride. The reaction mixture was stirred overnight at ambient temperature before water was added. The mixture was washed with ethyl acetate and brine dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated. Flash silica chromatography hexane ethyl acetate 40 60 afforded 21 mg product. Production of PAN37 was confirmed by 1 H NMR and 13 C NMR.

To a mixture of 1.2 g 2 methylthio benzoyl chloride B and 1.55 g AlClat 0 C. was added slowly 20 ml DCM. The mixture was stirred 5 minutes at ambient temperature before 7.8 g p xylene was added slowly. The reaction was stirred 30 minutes at ambient temperature before water was added slowly. The mixture was extracted with DCM 2 50 ml . The combined organic layer was washed with brine dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated. Flash silica chromatography hexane ethyl acetate 85 15 afforded 0.758 g product.

To a solution of 0.758 g 2 5 dimethylphenyl 2 methylthio phenyl methanone and 1 ml triethylsilane was added 5 ml TFA. The reaction mixture was stirred at RT for 1 hour before water was added. The reaction mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 70 ml and the combined organic extracts were washed with brine dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated. Flash silica chromatography hexane ethyl acetate 80 20 yielded 0.666 g product.

To a nitrogen flushed mixture of 0.666 g 2 2 5 dimethylbenzyl phenyl methyl sulfane and 0.6 g sodium thiolate was added 15 ml anhydrous DMF. The mixture was refluxed under nitrogen until the mixture turned black. The mixture was refluxed for an additional two hours before being cooled to ambient temperature and the addition of water. The mixture was washed with ethyl acetate 2 50 ml . The combined organic extracts were washed with brine dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated. Flash silica chromatography hexane ethyl acetate 80 20 afforded 0.51 g product.

The mixture of 0.51 g 2 2 5 dimethylbenzyl benzenethiol 2.24 mmol 0.609 g N 4 cyano 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl 2 methyloxirane 2 carboxamide 2.24 mmol 0.5 ml triethylamine 6 ml ethanol was stirred overnight and concentrated. The residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate washed with water brine dried over magnesium sulfate and concentrated. Without further purification the residue was mixed with 3.85 g mCPBA 15.5 mmol 30 ml DCM. The mixture was stirred overnight and concentrated. The residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate washed with water brine dried over magnesium sulfate and concentrated. Purification by chromatography hexane ethyl acetate 50 50 yield 0.228 g product 0.43 mmol 19 yield for two steps . Production of PAN71 was confirmed by 1 H NMR and 13 C NMR. See for the general PAN71 synthesis strategy.

Twenty four hours prior to transfection CV 1 cells were seeded at a density of 45 000 cells per well in 24 well cell culture plates and grown in phenol red free Dulbecco s Modified Eagle Medium DMEM supplemented with 10 cosmic calf serum CCS . ARE luciferase reporter and Luc as the internal standard and a prokaryotic expression vector encoding the wild type androgen receptor or mutant androgen receptor were transfected with Lipofectamine Invitrogen following manufacturer s protocol. Five hours after transfection media was added containing the appropriate concentrations of ligands. The cells were allowed to incubate for 38 hours before harvesting by passive lysis buffer. Cell extracts were immediately assayed using the Dual Luciferase Assay Promega . See and Table 1 for results.

Twenty four hours prior to transfection COS 7 cells were seeded at a density of 70 000 cells per well in 24 well cell culture plates and grown in phenol red free Dulbecco s Modified Eagle Medium DMEM supplement with 10 cosmic calf serum CCS . The cells were transfected with a prokaryotic expression vector encoding the wild type androgen receptor or mutant androgen receptor using Lipofectamine Invitrogen following manufacturer s protocol. The cells were allowed to grow for 30 hours and then labeled for 2 hours at 37 C. with H DHT and the appropriate concentration of ligands. Cells were washed with PBS and harvested in 2 SDS 10 glycerol and 10 mM Tris pH 6.8 and radioactivity determined by scintillation counting. See Table 1 for results.

Further evidence that formulae such as PLM1 can act to limit androgen dependent proliferation of prostate cells was obtained by cell proliferation assays as determined using CyQuant assays according to manufacturer s instructions invitrogen . Compounds such as PLM1 were found to be at least as potent as biclutamide itself at inhibiting androgen R1881 induced proliferation of LNCaP cells see .

Additional evidence that the formulae possess potential to evade anti androgen withdraw phenotype is demonstrated by in vitro selection assays in LnCAP cells following the method of Hara et al. as described in 63 149 153 2003 . LnCAP cells grown in the presence of 20 M bicalutamide result he selection of antagonist resistant colonies in 20 weeks. Parallel studies starting from 40 000 cells per 3.2 cm dishes show that compounds such as Formula VII reduce the formation of resistant colonies see .

