---

title: High power waveguide polarizer with broad bandwidth and low loss, and methods of making and using same
abstract: Embodiments of the invention provide high power waveguide polarizers with broad bandwidth and low loss, and methods of making and using the same. Under one aspect of the present invention, a waveguide polarizer includes a hollow waveguide body having an interior surface; a first ridge disposed on the interior surface of the hollow waveguide body and having an inward-facing surface; and a first plurality of projections disposed on the inward-facing surface of the first ridge. The projections may have a width that is narrower than that of the ridge, and a length that is tunable. The length of the projections may be selected to induce about a 90-degree phase delay in a first mode propagating in a plane parallel to the first ridge relative to a second mode propagating in a plane perpendicular to the first ridge.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08248178&OS=08248178&RS=08248178
owner: The Aerospace Corporation
number: 08248178
owner_city: El Segundo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20091203
---
This invention was made with Government support under contract FA 8802 04 C 0001 awarded by the Department of the Air Force. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

In general guided wave polarizer technology converts a circularly polarized wave into a linear polarized wave while maintaining orthogonality of the two possible senses of each polarized wave. For example a guided wave polarizer may convert a left hand circularly polarized LHCP wave into a horizontal H linearly polarized wave alternatively such a polarizer may convert a right hand circularly polarized RHCP wave into a vertical V linearly polarized wave. As is known in the art such polarization conversion is based on decomposing circularly polarized waves into a superposition of two orthogonal linearly polarized waves in phase quadrature. Whether the composite field is LHCP or RHCP depends on which of the two linear components lags behind the other. A guided wave polarizer advances or delays one of the field components by 90 degrees of phase relative to the other bringing the two linear components into phase with one another resulting in a linearly polarized composite wave. A guided wave polarizer may also convert a linearly polarized wave into a circularly polarized wave by the reverse process. Tolerances and errors in the conversion process typically result in some ellipticity of the wave regardless of the desired polarization.

Many different structures have been developed to modify the polarization of a wave. One simple structure for converting from linear polarization to circular polarization is a hollow rectangular waveguide with a width that is slightly different from its height. A linearly polarized wave is introduced at a 45 degree angle relative to the waveguide the wave is decomposed into two superimposed orthogonal linear TE10 modes dominant modes within the waveguide. As the two modes propagate through the waveguide they will experience different cut off frequencies and phase velocities as a result of the different width and height. The length of the waveguide is chosen such that one of the modes accumulates a 90 degree phase delay relative to the other mode across the length of the waveguide. The sense of the resulting circular polarization depends on the relative orientation of the linear polarization used to excite the two orthogonal modes and the waveguide. Although this technique is relatively simple only waves having a wavelength matched to the length of the particular waveguide will accumulate the 90 degree phase delay resulting in a useful bandwidth of less than 1 .

Alternatively as illustrated in another common approach is the use of a dielectric slab polarizer such as described in U.S. Pat. No. 2 607 849 to Purcell et al. Polarizer includes a hollow cylindrical waveguide body formed of a conductive material having a slab of dielectric material disposed therein. In this case it is useful to consider the incident linear TE01 mode as the superposition of two orthogonal TE01 modes each at half the power of the composite mode. This places one of the component modes parallel to slab and the other component mode perpendicular to slab . The parallel mode strongly couples to slab in which it experiences a reduced phase velocity that is inversely proportional to the square root of the dielectric constant of slab . The dielectric constant thickness and length of slab are selected such that parallel mode accumulates a total phase delay of 90 degrees with respect to the perpendicular mode as the two modes propagate through polarizer .

One drawback of polarizer is that differential phase shift induced by slab monotonically increases with frequency. For example is a plot of the calculated differential transmission phase of the dielectric slab polarizer of as a function of normalized frequency. To perform the calculation the polarizer was modeled and its performance simulated using a High Frequency Structure Simulator HFSS commercially available from Ansoft Pittsburgh Pa. . Based on the calculation it can be seen that the differential transmission phase increases monotonically with frequency. The bandwidth of polarizer may be defined as the frequency range over which the differential transmission phase is within 90 degrees plus or minus some tolerance value for example plus or minus five degrees divided by the center frequency of that frequency range. Using such a definition the marginal performance that can be achieved with the dielectric slab polarizer of is limited to a bandwidth of less than about 4 5 .

Another drawback of polarizer is that parallel mode must propagate within slab . As such the dissipative loss of the parallel mode will be greater than the loss of the perpendicular mode because dielectric materials produce more Ohmic loss than conductive materials. Dielectric slab is also susceptible to outgassing and to damage requiring the power of the incoming wave to be maintained below the damage threshold of the dielectric material. Additionally polarizer may only meet performance requirements within a relatively narrow temperature range of operation because a the dielectric constant of slab and thus the accumulated phase delay of mode varies with temperature and b the coefficient of thermal expansion of slab may be substantially different than that of cylindrical waveguide body potentially damaging polarizer if exposed to temperatures outside of an acceptable range. Furthermore repeatability of the dielectric material properties and dimensions may be poor causing performance to vary from polarizer to polarizer.

Polarization conversion can alternatively take place on an unguided free space wave with the use of multi layer grids of linear or meander line gratings. These structures tend to be relatively large and costly from a material standpoint.

Thus prior art polarizers suffer from a number of deficiencies including low bandwidth high loss low power handling capability and or large size.

Embodiments of the invention provide high power waveguide polarizers with broad bandwidth and low loss and methods of making and using same. Specifically embodiments of the invention provide a compact waveguide polarizer that includes a hollow waveguide body and at least one ridge for example a pair of ridges three ridges or two pairs of ridges disposed along the interior of the waveguide body. Each ridge includes on its upper surface a plurality of spaced projections such as cylindrical or rectangular posts or serrations. The ridges and spaced projections together produce a broad band differential phase shift between two orthogonal modes propagating through the waveguide body. Specifically the spaced projections provide a small capacitive reactance that offsets the inductive loading of the lower portions of the ridges. As a result a mode propagating parallel to the ridges accumulates a phase delay relative to a mode propagating orthogonal to the ridges that is substantially independent of wavelength over a relatively wide bandwidth. The differential phase delay may easily be tuned by adjusting the length of the projections. The bandwidth of the polarizer may in some embodiments be enhanced by configuring the projections so as to have a narrower width than the width of the ridge on which they are disposed. Additionally the polarizers may be inexpensively fabricated are compact have no dielectric losses may accept high power fields and may be used in a wide variety of environmental conditions.

Under one aspect of the present invention a waveguide polarizer includes a hollow waveguide body having an interior surface a first ridge disposed on the interior surface of the hollow waveguide body and having an inward facing surface and a first plurality of projections disposed on the inward facing surface of the first ridge. The projections of the first plurality may in some embodiments have a width and a length wherein the width is narrower than a width of the first ridge and wherein the length is tunable.

Some embodiments further include a second ridge disposed on the interior surface of the hollow waveguide body opposite the first ridge the second ridge having an inward facing surface and a second plurality of projections disposed on the inward facing surface of the second ridge. The projections of the second plurality may in some embodiments have a width and a length wherein the width is narrower than a width of the second ridge and wherein the length is tunable.

Some embodiments still further include third and fourth ridges disposed on the interior surface of the hollow waveguide body the third ridge and the fourth ridge each having an inward facing surface a third plurality of projections disposed on the inward facing surface of the third ridge and a fourth plurality of projections disposed on the inward facing surface of the fourth ridge. The third and fourth ridges may in some embodiments each have a height that is shorter than a height of the first and second ridges and may be disposed orthogonally to the first and second ridges. The projections of the third and fourth pluralities may in some embodiments have a length that is shorter than the length of the projections of the first and second pluralities.

In some embodiments the length of the projections is tuned so as to induce about a 90 degree phase delay in a first mode propagating in a plane parallel to the first ridges relative to a second mode propagating in a plane perpendicular to the first ridge.

The projections may include cylindrical posts. Alternatively the projections may include rectangular posts. The projections may include screws.

The waveguide polarizer may have a bandwidth of at least 30 about a center wavelength. For example the waveguide polarizer may have a bandwidth of at least 50 about a center wavelength.

In some embodiments each projection comprises a conductor. The conductor may include a metal selected from the group consisting of aluminum magnesium zinc titanium steel chromium and gold.

The first ridge may be formed integrally with the waveguide body. The first ridge has a height and a length. The height may be substantially uniform along the length. Alternatively the height may vary along the length. The width of the first ridge may vary along the length.

In one embodiment the first ridge has a length that is approximately equal to a wavelength of a mode propagating through the waveguide body.

Under another aspect of the present invention a method of forming a waveguide polarizer includes providing a waveguide body having an interior surface providing a ridge providing a plurality of projections having a width that is narrower than a width of the ridge coupling the ridge to the interior surface of the waveguide body the ridge having an inward facing surface coupling the plurality of projections to the inward facing surface of the ridge and tuning a length of the projections.

Coupling the plurality of projections to the inward facing surface of the ridge may include screwing each projection into the ridge. Tuning the length of the projections may include selecting a depth to which the projections are screwed into the ridge based on a phase delay to be induced in a mode propagating parallel to the ridge relative to a mode propagating perpendicular to the ridge.

Embodiments of the invention provide waveguide polarizers having significantly improved performance relative to the prior art polarizers described above. First the inventive waveguide polarizers have a significantly broader bandwidth than previously achieved with slab stepped ridge or septum polarizers for example. This broader bandwidth is achieved in part by providing within a hollow cylindrical waveguide body at least one ridge for example a pair of ridges that include a plurality of spaced projections on their upper surfaces. As described in greater detail below the projections may be cylindrical or rectangular posts or serrations for example that protrude from a lower portion of the ridges. Like the ridges discussed above with respect to the inventive ridges induce a differential phase delay in orthogonal modes traveling through the waveguide body. However the spaced projections modify the wavelength dependence of the phase delay induced by the ridges significantly broadening the bandwidth of the polarizer. Specifically whereas the ridges of induce a phase shift that increases monotonically with frequency as illustrated in the inventive ridges induce a phase shift that remains substantially constant over a wide frequency range thus significantly broadening the bandwidth of the polarizer.

Additionally in some embodiments the waveguide polarizer may be constructed entirely of conductive materials e.g. metals thus avoiding the use of dielectric materials such as discussed above with respect to . As such the polarizers may be reliably and inexpensively manufactured from a variety of suitable materials that may be used in harsh conditions and are not susceptible to significant outgassing in contrast to dielectric materials. Additionally the polarizers are highly efficient because they do not cause ohmic losses. Moreover the polarizers may be constructed so as to have easily tunable differential phase delay characteristics allowing them to be easily modified during or after fabrication for operation with a wide variety of bandwidths.

In the embodiment illustrated in ridges are integrally formed with hollow waveguide body and projections are formed separately from ridges and are coupled thereto. Ridges have a substantially uniform height along their length as well as a substantially uniform width along their length. In other embodiments the height and or width may vary along their length. Projections all have substantially the same length as one another and each plurality of projections includes the same number of projections . In other embodiments projections may have different heights from one another e.g. the heights of projections may vary relatively smoothly along ridges . Hollow waveguide body ridges and projections are constructed of one or more conductive materials such as a metal for example aluminum magnesium zinc titanium or steel which optionally may be coated with another conductor e.g. with chromium gold platinum or silver. In one embodiment projections are screws such as machine screws or self tapping screws screwed into ridges enabling their length to be tunable. In other embodiments for example as described below with respect to protrusions may instead be formed integrally with ridges and or may be formed in different shapes. Alternatively or additionally ridges may instead be formed separately from hollow waveguide body and coupled thereto as described in greater detail below.

A cooperative effect of ridges and the first and second pluralities of projections enhance the performance of waveguide polarizer relative to that of the prior art polarizers described above. Specifically the differential transmission phase through polarizer may be described in part by Equation 1 

As can be seen from the first term of Equation 1 the differential transmission phase experienced by mode relative to mode within waveguide polarizer is inversely proportional to the difference between the guide wavelengths and . As the frequency of the wave propagating through waveguide body increases the difference between the guide wavelengths decreases. As such a waveguide polarizer containing ridges alone similar to that described further above with reference to would exhibit a differential transmission phase that decreases monotonically with frequency. As can be seen from the second term of Equation 1 the differential transmission phase is proportional to the number of projections n the length of the projections l and the resonance frequency of the projections f. Thus a waveguide polarizer containing projections alone would exhibit a differential transmission phase that increases monotonically with frequency. As can be seen from Equation 1 the frequency dependencies of ridges and projections oppose each other that is one decreases with frequency while the other increases with frequency. Phrased differently the projections provide a periodic capacitive loading that offsets the inductive loading provided by the ridges. As a result the total differential transmission phase is substantially independent of frequency within a wide frequency range thus providing a polarizer having significantly broader bandwidth than the prior art polarizer of .

As can readily be seen from Equation 1 above the differential transmission phase depends among other things on the product of the number n of projections and the length lof projections . Based on such a relationship it can be appreciated that the number n of projections may be reduced proportionally as the length lof the projections is increased conversely the length lof projections may be reduced proportionally as the number n of projections is increased. However the length lof projections is preferably less than one quarter of the guide wavelength in the plane parallel to ridges because such a length would correspond to the resonant frequency f. Moreover the length of the projections lcannot be decreased to zero which would cause the second term of Equation 1 to vanish yielding a ridge only waveguide polarizer such as illustrated in . Additionally the efficiency of waveguide polarizer depends in part on the spacing between projections . For example if projections are spaced at of the guide wavelength from one another reflections from the projections will destructively interfere yielding a theoretical 100 transmission through the waveguide. However it may be useful to space projections at less than of the guide wavelength from one another enabling a larger number n of projections to be included in waveguide so that the length of the projections may be reduced. As such the number length and spacing of the projections are interdependent parameters that may be selected based on the desired operating wavelength s of the waveguide the desired size of the waveguide and the desired throughput of the waveguide.

In some embodiments the waveguide polarizer may include four or more five or more ten or more twenty or more or even fifty or more projections disposed upon each of first and second ridges. For example the waveguide polarizer may include between four and fifty projections or between four and forty projections or between four and thirty projections or between four and twenty projections or between four and ten projections on each of the first and second ridges. For example the waveguide polarizer may include four or five or six or seven or eight or nine or ten or eleven or twelve or thirteen or fourteen or fifteen or sixteen or seventeen or eighteen or nineteen or twenty projections on each of the first and second ridges. In some embodiments the projections have a length that is less than of a guide wavelength e.g. between and 1 1000 or between and 1 100 or between and 1 50 or between and 1 20 or between and 1 10 or between and or between and 1 1000 or between and 1 100 or between and 1 50 or between and 1 20 or between and 1 10 or between 1 16 and 1 1000 or between 1 16 and 1 100 or between 1 16 and 1 50 or between 1 16 and 1 20 of a guide wavelength. In some embodiments the projections are spaced apart from one another by of a guide wavelength or between and 1 50 of a guide wavelength e.g. between and 1 25 or between and 1 20 or between and 1 16 or between and 1 10 or between and or between and of a guide wavelength.

For example illustrates waveguide polarizer which includes waveguide body first and second ridges and first and second pluralities of projections . Each of the first and second pluralities of projections includes four cylindrically shaped projections respectively disposed on the inward facing surfaces of first and second ridges . In waveguide polarizer each of the pluralities of projections includes four projections whereas waveguide polarizer illustrated in includes ten projections in each plurality of projections . Projections may be constructed so as to have a proportionally greater length lthan projections thus offsetting the reduced number n of projections as discussed above with respect to Equation 1. As such waveguide polarizer may be constructed to be of overall shorter length than waveguide polarizer because it need not accommodate as many projections as waveguide polarizer to accomplish a similar phase delay between modes as they propagate through waveguide polarizer as waveguide polarizer provides. Additionally projections may in some embodiments have a width that is narrower than a width of ridges .

As illustrated in ridges each additionally include first second and third steps of varying heights. In one embodiment steps each have a length of of the guide wavelength in the plane parallel to the steps and step has two segments each of which has a length of of the guide wavelength in the plane parallel to the steps so that ridges and each have a length that is approximately equal to the guide wavelength e.g. approximately equal to a wavelength of a mode supported by waveguide body . One projection is positioned on each of steps and on each of the two segments of step so that the projections are spaced at intervals of of the guide wavelength from one another. Such an arrangement may enable the ridge projection assemblies to provide the desired 90 degree polarization rotation over the span of a single guide wavelength enabling the waveguide polarizer to be significantly more compact than is possible for prior art waveguide polarizers such as those described above. Waveguide body may have a length that is approximately as long as ridges or alternatively may have a length that is longer than ridges as is illustrated. In one embodiment waveguide body is slightly longer than ridges e.g. at least about 5 longer than the ridges.

It will be appreciated that ridge projection assemblies such as illustrated in are optional and may in some circumstances enhance the efficiency of a waveguide polarizer. The height of ridges may vary along the length of the ridges in ways other than that illustrated for example the height may vary smoothly along the length. Or a greater number of discrete steps may be used. Additionally the widths of the steps may be different from one another e.g. the width of ridges may vary along the length. In other embodiments ridges may have a substantially uniform width along their length. Projections may in some embodiments have the same length as one another while they may have different lengths from one another in other embodiments. Other configurations are possible for example as described below with respect to .

As can be seen from the relative phase difference that waveguide polarizer induces in orthogonal fields is substantially independent of bandwidth e.g. varies from ninety degrees by about 5 degrees or less between normalized frequencies of about 0.84 and 1.12 corresponding to a relative bandwidth of greater than 30 significantly higher than available with the prior art waveguide polarizers described above with reference to .

Method includes providing a hollow waveguide body having an interior surface . The diameter of the waveguide body is preferably sufficiently large so as to support two orthogonal linear modes of the wavelength of interest therein and the length of the waveguide body is preferably sufficiently large such that one of the two orthogonal modes may accumulate the desired phase delay as it propagates therethrough. Preferably the waveguide body has a symmetrical cross section. For example the waveguide body may have a circular cross section. In other embodiments the waveguide body may have an elliptical cross section or a rectangular cross section or a square cross section. The waveguide body may be formed using any suitable method for example by machining or extrusion or die casting. Portions of the waveguide body may be separately formed and subsequently secured together for example using an adhesive or a latching mechanism or with welding. The hollow waveguide body may be formed of a conductor such as a metal. Examples of suitable metals include aluminum magnesium zinc titanium or steel which optionally may be coated with another conductor e.g. with chromium gold platinum or silver. In one embodiment the waveguide body is formed of aluminum.

Method also includes providing first and second ridges . As discussed above with reference to the ridges may have a uniform height along their length or alternatively may have a height that varies along the length e.g. smoothly or in steps of different heights . The ridges may be unitary with the waveguide body in which case they are formed concurrently with the waveguide body. Alternatively the ridges may be formed separately from the waveguide body using any suitable method. For example the ridges may be formed by machining or extrusion or die casting. The ridges may be formed of a conductor such as a metal. Examples of suitable metals include aluminum magnesium zinc titanium or steel which optionally may be coated with another conductor e.g. with chromium gold platinum or silver. In one embodiment the ridges are formed of aluminum. In one embodiment the ridges and waveguide body are formed concurrently by die casting two halves of the ridge waveguide body assembly and then securing the two halves together with welding.

Method also includes providing first and second pluralities of projections . The projections may be unitary with the ridges which in turn may be unitary with the waveguide body . Alternatively the projections may be formed separately from the ridges using any suitable method. For example the projections may be formed by machining or extrusion or die casting. The projections may be formed of a conductor such as a metal. Examples of suitable metals include aluminum magnesium zinc titanium or steel which optionally may be coated with another conductor e.g. with chromium gold platinum or silver. In one embodiment the projections are formed of aluminum. In one embodiment the projections are formed as self tapping or machine screws formed of steel which is optionally coated with chromium or gold.

Method also includes coupling the first and second ridges opposite one another to the interior surface of the waveguide body . In embodiments where the ridges and waveguide body are unitary with one another such coupling occurs during the formation of the ridge waveguide body structure. In embodiments where the ridges are formed separately from the waveguide body the ridges may be coupled to the waveguide body using any suitable method for example with an adhesive or a latching mechanism or with welding.

Method also includes coupling the first plurality of projections to an inward facing surface of the first ridge and coupling the second plurality of projections to an inward facing surface of the second ridge . In embodiments where the projections and ridges are unitary with one another such coupling occurs during the formation of the projection ridge structure. In such embodiments the length of the projections are fixed during their formation. In other embodiments where the projections and ridges are formed separately from one another the projections may be coupled to the ridges using any suitable method such as with an adhesive or a latching mechanism or with welding. For example a series of cavities may be defined in the inward facing surfaces of ridges and the projections inserted into the cavities. The projections may be held in place via friction or may be secured using any suitable mechanism. For example the cavities may be threaded and the projections may be screws that are threaded to match the threads of the cavities. Or for example the cavities may be smooth and the projections may be screws that create their own threads as turned. Or for example the projections may be screws that are self tapping obviating the need to form cavities in the ridges. In embodiments in which the projections are screwed or otherwise inserted into the ridges their length relative to the ridge may be tunable and the depth to which the projections are screwed or inserted into the ridges may be based on a phase delay to be induced in a mode propagating parallel to the ridges relative to a mode propagating perpendicular to the ridges e.g. as discussed above with reference to Equation 1.

The waveguide polarizers of the present invention may be incorporated into a wide variety of systems. For example circularly polarized signals are generally preferred for transmitting and receiving signals to and from satellite systems because circular polarization obviates the need to align the ground based antennas with that of the satellite antenna as may be required for linearly polarized signals. This is especially true when used with Earth terminals that are mobile viewing multiple satellites or when the space segment is not in a geostationary orbit causing the orientation of a linear polarized signal to constantly change. However signal processing performed terrestrially or on a satellite is typically performed using linearly polarized waves requiring the use of a waveguide polarizer to convert the circularly polarized received transmitted signal into a linearly polarized signal for processing. Additionally to achieve high capacity links some systems encode different signals in both of the linear components of the circularly polarized waves requiring high polarization purity over the entire band of operation. When used in phased arrays that have large element counts size and weight of the components in the antenna are also important parameters.

Various embodiments of the inventive waveguide polarizers may be employed as an interface between a circularly polarized antenna e.g. a phased array antenna or reflector antenna and signal processing components e.g. linearly polarized filters amplifiers and beam formers. Because the waveguide polarizers are characterized by high bandwidth low loss compact form durability low residual ellipticity and ease of manufacture they are more suitable for use in such environments than the prior art polarizers discussed above which may have too narrow a bandwidth high sensitivity to environmental conditions low reproducibility high residual ellipticity and or too high of loss to meet the desired performance requirements. The inventive waveguide polarizers may be used both in ground based systems and in satellite based systems to convert circularly polarized transmitted and or received signals into linearly polarized signals for processing.

For example illustrate perspective and plan views of an embodiment in which waveguide polarizer of is coupled to conical feedhorn and to rectangular waveguide . Assembly may be positioned for example in a satellite an airplane or in a ground based system which may be mobile or may be fixed. Assembly may be used alone may be part of a phased array incorporating a plurality of such assemblies or may be part of a reflector antenna. In some embodiments waveguide polarizer is coupled to waveguide and feedhorn is omitted. In other embodiments waveguide polarizer is coupled to feedhorn and waveguide is omitted. In some embodiments both the satellite and the airplane or ground based system include assembly .

Conical feedhorn is configured to receive circularly polarized signals of both senses LHCP and RHCP and may be constructed using any design and materials known in the art. Those of skill in the art will recognize that in embodiments in which waveguide polarizer has a cross section that is not circular e.g. that is rectangular feedhorn may be constructed to have a shape that is other than conical e.g. rectangular to more efficiently feed waves into waveguide polarizer .

Waveguide polarizer is configured to receive a circularly polarized signal from conical feedhorn and is configured to induce an approximately 90 degree phase delay in that signal e.g. as described above to provide a linearly polarized signal. Rectangular waveguide is configured to receive that linearly polarized signal and to transmit that signal to other components such as a filter. As illustrated in aperture of rectangular waveguide may be positioned at a 45 degree angle with respect to the first and second ridges and first and second pluralities of projections of waveguide polarizer . The 45 degree angle allows the incident field to be split between orthogonal modes which propagate along waveguide for processing by other components. In embodiments where assembly receives a signal having substantially only a single sense of circular polarization waveguide receives a signal having substantially only a single linear polarization. In embodiments where assembly receives a signal having both senses of circular polarization each of which senses contains different information waveguide receives a signal having two linearly polarized orthogonal modes each of which contains different information.

Assembly may also transmit signals. For example waveguide polarizer may receive a linearly polarized signal from waveguide may convert that signal to a circularly polarized signal and may provide that circularly polarized signal to feedhorn for transmission.

Although the above described embodiments include a single pair of ridge projection assemblies other configurations are possible. For example as illustrated in waveguide polarizer may include a first pair of ridges with pluralities of projections respectively disposed thereon and a second pair of ridges with pluralities of projections respectively disposed thereon. In one embodiment the projections of the pluralities have the same length as one another but a different length than the projections of the pluralities . The widths of any or all of the projections may be narrower than the widths of the respective ridges on which they are disposed. Additionally the pair of ridges may have the same height and width as one another but a different height and or width than the pair of ridges . In the illustrated embodiment ridges have a greater height than ridges and the same width. Alternatively any of the ridges may have different heights and or widths from any or all of the other ridges and any of the pluralities of projections may have different lengths and or widths than any or all of the other pluralities of projections. The different heights and or widths of the ridge pairs and or the different lengths and or widths of the pluralities of projections may induce different phase delays in orthogonal modes as the modes propagate along waveguide .

Alternatively as illustrated in waveguide polarizer may include a pair of ridges with pluralities of projections respectively disposed thereon and a single ridge with a plurality of projections disposed thereon. In one embodiment the projections of the pluralities have the same length as one another but a different length than the projections of plurality . Additionally the pair of ridges may have the same height and width as one another but a different height and or width than ridge . In the illustrated embodiment ridges and have a greater height than ridge but the same width. Alternatively any of the ridges may have different heights and or width from any or all of the other ridges and any of the pluralities of projections may have different lengths and or widths than any or all of the other pluralities of projections. In some embodiments the projections have a narrower width than the ridge on which they are respectively disposed. The different internal dimensions of waveguide in the planes respectively parallel to modes provided by the different heights of the ridges the different lengths of the pluralities of projections and or the absence of a ridge opposite ridge may induce different phase delays in modes as those modes propagate along waveguide .

Alternatively as illustrated in waveguide polarizer may include a single ridge with a plurality of projections disposed thereon. The different internal dimensions of waveguide in the planes respectively parallel to modes provided by ridge projections may induce different phase delays in orthogonal modes as the modes propagate along waveguide .

Any suitable number of ridge projection assemblies may be provided within a waveguide polarizer according to various embodiments of the present invention. For example as illustrated in waveguide polarizers may have one or two or three or four ridge projection assemblies disposed within a waveguide body. Alternatively waveguide polarizers may have more than four ridge projection assemblies disposed within a waveguide body for example five or six or seven or eight or nine or ten or more than ten ridge projection assemblies. Additionally the ridge projection assemblies may have any suitable configuration and need not be limited to the uniform ridge cylindrical projection embodiments illustrated in . For example the ridges may have a uniform height or may have a height that varies along the ridge length e.g. smoothly or stepwise and or may have a width that varies along the ridge length e.g. smoothly or stepwise. Or for example the projections may be cylindrical rectangular square or serrations. Any suitable combination of ridge shape and projection shape may be used including shapes not specifically described herein.

As discussed above with reference to ridges illustrated in in some embodiments the width of the ridges may vary along their length. For example illustrates ridge projection assembly that may be used in place of ridges . Ridge includes steps and that have lengths of of the guide wavelength and step that has a length of of the guide wavelength which may be thought of as having two segments that are each of the guide wavelength as discussed above with respect to . A projection is disposed on each of steps and and on each segment of step so there are two projections disposed on step . Projections have a width that is narrower than the step on which they are respectively disposed and in the illustrated embodiment have the same length as one another although alternatively at least one projection may have a different length than at least one other projection . Steps are not only shorter than step have a reduced height relative to step but also have a reduced width. Varying both the width and the height of steps may in some circumstances enhance the bandwidth of a waveguide polarizer incorporating ridge projection assembly as well as reduce the number of higher order modes excited within the waveguide polarizer. illustrates a perspective view of waveguide polarizer that includes first and second ridge projection assemblies disposed opposite one another on the inner surface of waveguide body . Note that the wall of waveguide body is omitted for clarity from .

The provision of additional steps of varying heights and or widths may further enhance the performance of a waveguide polarizer. For example illustrates ridge projection assembly that may be used in place of ridges and that includes steps . . . having projections . . . respectively disposed thereon with two projections disposed on central step . Assembly is arranged substantially symmetrically with steps and being about the same height and width as one another steps and being about the same height and width as one another and being taller and wider than steps and steps and being about the same height and width as one another and being taller and wider than steps and and step being taller wider and longer than steps and . The projections have substantially the same width as one another which width is narrower than the width of any of the steps in assembly . However at least some of the projections have different lengths from each other. Specifically projections and are about the same length as one another projections and are about the same length as one another and are longer than projections and projections and are about the same length as one another and are longer than projections and and projections and are about the same length as one another and are longer than projections . Varying both the width and the height of the various steps and projections may in some circumstances enhance the bandwidth of a waveguide polarizer incorporating ridge projection assembly as well as reduce the number of higher order modes excited within the waveguide polarizer.

In one illustrative embodiment a ridge is provided that is similar to that illustrated in but which contains 15 steps indexed as 1 2 . . . 15 that are arranged symmetrically and have the dimensions listed Table 1 and the projections respectively disposed thereon are cylindrical posts indexed as a b . . . o having the lengths listed in Table 2.

In this example the projections each have a width of 0.040 inches and the total length of ridge is 1.194 inches. In one embodiment a waveguide polarizer having a pair of ridges configured as listed in Tables 1 and 2 disposed opposite one another on the inner surface of a waveguide body having a length of 2 inches and an inner diameter of 0.710 was calculated to have a bandwidth of approximately 51 . It should be appreciated that the performance of such a waveguide polarizer is not highly sensitive to the width of the projections or to the length of the waveguide body so long as the waveguide body is about as long as or slightly longer than the ridges .

In some embodiments the ridges may be omitted entirely and the waveguide body instead shaped to dimensionally perturb the ridge in a similar fashion to a ridge. For example if the waveguide body is rectangular with a height and a width wherein the height is smaller than the width the smaller dimension along the height may provide a similar function to a pair of ridges. Analogously if the waveguide body is elliptical with a major axis and a minor axis wherein the dimension along the minor axis is smaller than the dimension along the major axis the smaller dimension along the minor axis may perform a similar function to a pair of ridges. The waveguide body can alternatively be deformed to provide one or more ridge like structures.

Additionally the lengths of the projections may be de tuned to provide dual band performance. Specifically in many of the embodiments described above the length of the projections may be selected to give as wide a bandwidth of performance as is desired for example so that the combination curve illustrated in is made as flat as possible over a desired bandwidth range. Increasing the lengths of the projections from such a length may cause the lower portion of combination curve to drop further below 90 degrees. At such a length the combination curve may provide a 90 degree phase shift both at a relatively high frequency and at a relatively low frequency. As such the waveguide polarizer may be used to induce a 90 degree phase shift in two different bands one centered at the relatively high frequency and the other centered at the relatively low frequency. Such a configuration may thus increase the amount of information that the waveguide polarizer is capable of processing.

While preferred embodiments of the invention are described herein it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that various changes and modifications may be made. The appended claims are intended to cover all such changes and modifications that fall within the true spirit and scope of the invention.

