---

title: Substituted pyrroles and methods of use
abstract: The invention relates to substituted pyrrole compounds of Formula (I) which are useful as kinase inhibitors, more specifically useful as checkpoint kinase 1 (chk1) inhibitors, thus useful as cancer therapeutics. The invention also relates to compositions, more specifically pharmaceutical compositions comprising these compounds and methods of using the same to treat various forms of cancer and hyperproliferative disorders, as well as methods of using the compounds for in vitro, in situ, and in vivo diagnosis or treatment of mammalian cells, or associated pathological conditions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08410279&OS=08410279&RS=08410279
owner: Genentech, Inc.
number: 08410279
owner_city: South San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090610
---
This application is made under 35 U.S. 371 based on International Application PCT US2009 003493 filed on Jun. 10 2009 and claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 060 752 filed Jun. 11 2008 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 104 618 filed Oct. 10 2008 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The invention relates to substituted pyrrole compounds which are useful as kinase inhibitors more specifically useful as checkpoint kinase 1 chk1 inhibitors thus useful as cancer therapeutics. The invention also relates to compositions more specifically pharmaceutical compositions comprising these compounds and methods of using the same to treat various forms of cancer and hyperproliferative disorders as well as methods of using the compounds for in vitro in situ and in vivo diagnosis or treatment of mammalian cells or associated pathological conditions.

Individual cells replicate by making an exact copy of their chromosomes and then segregating these into separate cells. This cycle of DNA replication chromosome separation and division is regulated by mechanisms within the cell that maintain the order of the steps and ensure that each step is precisely carried out. Involved in these processes are the cell cycle checkpoints Hartwell et al. Science Nov. 3 1989 246 4930 629 34 where cells may arrest to ensure DNA repair mechanisms have time to operate prior to continuing through the cycle into mitosis. There are two such checkpoints in the cell cycle the G1 S checkpoint that is regulated by p53 and the G2 M checkpoint that is monitored by the serine threonine kinase checkpoint kinase 1 chk1 .

Chk1 and Chk2 are structurally unrelated yet functionally overlapping serine threonine kinases activated in response to genotoxic stimuli reviewed in Bartek et al. Nat. Rev. Mol. Cell Biol. 2001 vol. 2 pp. 877 886 . Chk1 and Chk2 relay the checkpoint signals from the ATM and ATR which phosphorylate and activate them. Chk2 is a stable protein expressed throughout the cell cycle activated mainly by ATM in response to double strand DNA breaks DSBs . In contrast Chk1 protein expression is largely restricted to S and G2 phases. In response to DNA damage ChK1 is phosphorylated and activated by ATM ATR resulting in cell cycle arrest in the S and G2 M phases to allow for repair of DNA damage reviewed in Cancer Cell Bartek and Lukas Volume 3 Issue 5 May 2003 Pages 421 429. Inhibition of Chk1 has been shown to abrogate cell cycle arrest leading to enhanced tumor cell death following DNA damage by a range of chemotherapeutics. Cells lacking intact G1 checkpoints are particularly dependent on S and G2 M checkpoints and are therefore expected to be more sensitive to chemotherapeutic treatment in the presence of a chk1 inhibitor whereas normal cells with functional G1 checkpoints would be predicted to undergo less cell death.

The invention relates generally to substituted pyrroles of Formula I and or solvates hydrates and or salts thereof with kinase inhibitory activity more specifically with chk1 inhibitory activity. The compounds of the present invention are also useful as inhibitors of Glycogen Synthase Kinase 3 GSK 3 KDR kinase and FMS like tyrosine kinase 3 FLT3 . Accordingly the compounds of the invention and compositions thereof are useful in the treatment of hyperproliferative disorders such as cancer.

The present invention includes a composition e.g. a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of Formula I and or solvates hydrates and or salts thereof and a carrier a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier . The present invention also includes a composition e.g. a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of Formula I and or solvates hydrates and or salts thereof and a carrier a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier further comprising a second chemotherapeutic agent. The present compositions are therefore useful for inhibiting abnormal cell growth or treating a hyperproliferative disorder in a mammal e.g. human such as cancer.

The present invention includes a method of inhibiting abnormal cell growth or treating a hyperproliferative disorder in a mammal e.g. human such as cancer comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I and or solvates hydrates and or salts thereof or a composition thereof alone or in combination with a second chemotherapeutic agent.

The present invention includes a method of using the present compounds for in vitro in situ and in vivo diagnosis or treatment of mammalian cells organisms or associated pathological conditions.

Reference will now be made in detail to certain embodiments of the invention examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying structures and formulas. While the invention will be described in conjunction with the enumerated embodiments it will be understood that they are not intended to limit the invention to those embodiments. On the contrary the invention is intended to cover all alternatives modifications and equivalents which may be included within the scope of the present invention as defined by the claims. One skilled in the art will recognize many methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein which could be used in the practice of the present invention. The present invention is in no way limited to the methods and materials described. In the event that one or more of the incorporated literature patents and similar materials differs from or contradicts this application including but not limited to defined terms term usage described techniques or the like this application controls.

The term alkyl as used herein refers to a saturated linear or branched chain monovalent hydrocarbon radical of one to twelve carbon atoms. Examples of alkyl groups include but are not limited to methyl Me CH ethyl Et CHCH 1 propyl n Pr n propyl CHCHCH 2 propyl i Pr i propyl CH CH 1 butyl n Bu n butyl CHCHCHCH 2 methyl 1 propyl i Bu i butyl CHCH CH 2 butyl s Bu s butyl CH CH CHCH 2 methyl 2 propyl t Bu t butyl C CH 1 pentyl n pentyl CHCHCHCHCH 2 pentyl CH CH CHCHCH 3 pentyl CH CHCH 2 methyl 2 butyl C CH CHCH 3 methyl 2 butyl CH CH CH CH 3 methyl 1 butyl CHCHCH CH 2 methyl 1 butyl CHCH CH CHCH 1 hexyl CHCHCHCHCHCH 2 hexyl CH CH CHCHCHCH 3 hexyl CH CHCH CHCHCH 2 methyl 2 pentyl C CH CHCHCH 3 methyl 2 pentyl CH CH CH CH CHCH 4 methyl 2 pentyl CH CH CHCH CH 3 methyl 3 pentyl C CH CHCH 2 methyl 3 pentyl CH CHCH CH CH 2 3 dimethyl 2 butyl C CH CH CH 3 3 dimethyl 2 butyl CH CH C CH 1 heptyl 1 octyl and the like.

The term alkenyl refers to linear or branched chain monovalent hydrocarbon radical of two to twelve carbon atoms with at least one site of unsaturation i.e. a carbon carbon spdouble bond wherein the alkenyl radical includes radicals having cis and trans orientations or alternatively E and Z orientations. Examples include but are not limited to ethylenyl or vinyl CH CH allyl CHCH CH and the like.

The term alkynyl refers to a linear or branched monovalent hydrocarbon radical of two to twelve carbon atoms with at least one site of unsaturation i.e. a carbon carbon sp triple bond. Examples include but are not limited to ethynyl C CH propynyl propargyl CHC CH and the like.

The term cycloalkyl refers to a monovalent non aromatic saturated or partially unsaturated ring having 3 to 12 carbon atoms as a monocyclic ring or 6 to 12 carbon atoms as a bicyclic ring. Bicyclic carbocycles having 6 to 12 atoms can be arranged for example as a bicyclo 4 5 5 5 5 6 or 6 6 system and bicyclic carbocycles having 9 or 10 ring atoms can be arranged as a bicyclo 5 6 or 6 6 system or as bridged systems such as bicyclo 2.2.1 heptane bicyclo 2.2.2 octane and bicyclo 3.2.2 nonane. Examples of monocyclic carbocycles include but are not limited to cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl 1 cyclopent 1 enyl 1 cyclopent 2 enyl 1 cyclopent 3 enyl cyclohexyl 1 cyclohex 1 enyl 1 cyclohex 2 enyl 1 cyclohex 3 enyl cyclohexadienyl cycloheptyl cyclooctyl cyclononyl cyclodecyl cycloundecyl cyclododecyl and the like.

 Aryl means a monovalent aromatic hydrocarbon radical of 6 14 carbon atoms derived by the removal of one hydrogen atom from a single carbon atom of a parent aromatic ring system. Some aryl groups are represented in the exemplary structures as Ar . Aryl includes bicyclic radicals comprising an aromatic ring fused to a saturated partially unsaturated ring or aromatic carbocyclic or heterocyclic ring. Typical aryl groups include but are not limited to radicals derived from benzene phenyl substituted benzenes naphthalene anthracene indenyl indanyl 1 2 dihydronapthalene 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronapthyl and the like.

The terms heterocycle heterocyclyl and heterocyclic ring are used interchangeably herein and refer to a saturated or a partially unsaturated i.e. having one or more double bonds within the ring carbocyclic radical of 3 to 14 ring atoms in which at least one ring atom is a heteroatom selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulfur the remaining ring atoms being C where one or more ring atoms is optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described below. A heterocycle may be a monocycle having 3 to 7 ring members 2 to 6 carbon atoms and 1 to 4 heteroatoms selected from N O and S or a bicycle having 6 to 10 ring members 4 to 9 carbon atoms and 1 to 6 heteroatoms selected from N O and S for example a bicyclo 4 5 5 5 5 6 or 6 6 system or a bridged 2.1.1 2.2.1 2.2.2 or 3.2.2 system. Heterocycles are described in Paquette Leo A. Principles of Modern Heterocyclic Chemistry W. A. Benjamin New York 1968 particularly Chapters 1 3 4 6 7 and 9 The Chemistry of Heterocyclic Compounds A series of Monographs John Wiley Sons New York 1950 to present in particular Volumes 13 14 16 19 and 28 and J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1960 82 5566. Heterocyclyl also includes radicals where heterocycle radicals are fused with a saturated partially unsaturated ring or aromatic carbocyclic or heterocyclic ring. Examples of heterocyclic rings include but are not limited to pyrrolidinyl tetrahydrofuranyl dihydropyranyl tetrahydrothienyl tetrahydropyranyl dihydropyranyl tetrahydrothiopyranyl piperidinyl morpholinyl thiomorpholinyl thioxanyl piperazinyl homopiperazinyl azetidinyl oxetanyl thietanyl homopiperidinyl oxepanyl thiepanyl oxazepinyl diazepinyl thiazepinyl 2 pyrrolinyl 3 pyrrolinyl indolinyl 2H pyranyl 4H pyranyl dioxanyl 1 3 dioxolanyl pyrazolinyl dithianyl dithiolanyl dihydropyranyl dihydrothienyl pyrazolidinylimidazolinyl imidazolidinyl 3 azabicyco 3.1.0 hexanyl 3 azabicyclo 4.1.0 heptanyl and azabicyclo 2.2.2 hexanyl. Spiro moieties are also included within the scope of this definition. Examples of a heterocyclic group wherein ring atoms are substituted with oxo O moieties are pyrimidinonyl and 1 1 dioxo thiomorpholinyl.

The term heteroaryl refers to a monovalent aromatic radical of 5 or 6 membered rings and includes fused ring systems at least one of which is aromatic of 5 16 atoms containing one or more heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulfur. Examples of heteroaryl groups are pyridinyl including for example 2 hydroxypyridinyl imidazolyl imidazopyridinyl pyrimidinyl including for example 4 hydroxypyrimidinyl pyrazolyl triazolyl pyrazinyl tetrazolyl furyl thienyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl oxazolyl isothiazolyl pyrrolyl quinolinyl isoquinolinyl indolyl benzimidazolyl benzofuranyl cinnolinyl indazolyl indolizinyl phthalazinyl pyridazinyl triazinyl isoindolyl pteridinyl purinyl oxadiazolyl triazolyl thiadiazolyl furazanyl benzofurazanyl benzothiophenyl benzothiazolyl benzoxazolyl quinazolinyl quinoxalinyl naphthyridinyl and furopyridinyl.

The heterocycle or heteroaryl groups may be carbon carbon linked or nitrogen nitrogen linked attached where such is possible. By way of example and not limitation carbon bonded heterocycles or heteroaryls are bonded at position 2 3 4 5 or 6 of a pyridine position 3 4 5 or 6 of a pyridazine position 2 4 5 or 6 of a pyrimidine position 2 3 5 or 6 of a pyrazine position 2 3 4 or 5 of a furan tetrahydrofuran tetrahydrothiophene thiophene pyrrole or pyrrolidine position 2 4 or 5 of an oxazole imidazole or thiazole position 3 4 or 5 of an isoxazole pyrazole or isothiazole position 2 or 3 of an aziridine position 2 3 or 4 of an azetidine position 2 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 of a quinoline or position 1 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 of an isoquinoline.

By way of example and not limitation nitrogen bonded heterocycles or heteroaryls are bonded at position 1 of an aziridine azetidine pyrrole pyrrolidine 2 pyrroline 3 pyrroline imidazole imidazolidine 2 imidazoline 3 imidazoline pyrazole pyrazoline 2 pyrazoline 3 pyrazoline piperidine piperazine indole indoline 1H indazole 2 oxo 1 2 dihydropyridine or 4 oxo 1 4 dihydropyridine position 2 of a isoindole or isoindoline position 4 of a morpholine and position 9 of a carbazole or carboline.

The term halo refers to F Cl Br or I. The heteroatoms present in heteroaryl or heterocyclyl include the oxidized forms such as N O S O and S O .

The terms treat and treatment refer to both therapeutic treatment and prophylactic or preventative measures wherein the object is to prevent or slow down lessen an undesired physiological change or disorder such as the development or spread of cancer. For purposes of this invention beneficial or desired clinical results include but are not limited to alleviation of symptoms diminishment of extent of disease stabilized i.e. not worsening state of disease delay or slowing of disease progression amelioration or palliation of the disease state and remission whether partial or total whether detectable or undetectable. Treatment can also mean prolonging survival as compared to expected survival if not receiving treatment. Those in need of treatment include those already with the condition or disorder as well as those prone to have the condition or disorder or those in which the condition or disorder is to be prevented.

The phrase therapeutically effective amount means an amount of a compound of the present invention that i treats or prevents the particular disease condition or disorder ii attenuates ameliorates or eliminates one or more symptoms of the particular disease condition or disorder or iii prevents or delays the onset of one or more symptoms of the particular disease condition or disorder described herein. In the case of cancer the therapeutically effective amount of the drug may reduce the number of cancer cells reduce the tumor size inhibit i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop cancer cell infiltration into peripheral organs inhibit i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop tumor metastasis inhibit to some extent tumor growth and or relieve to some extent one or more of the symptoms associated with the cancer. To the extent the drug may prevent growth and or kill existing cancer cells it may be cytostatic and or cytotoxic. For cancer therapy efficacy can be measured for example by assessing the time to disease progression TTP and or determining the response rate RR .

The terms abnormal cell growth and hyperproliferative disorder are used interchangeably in this application. Abnormal cell growth as used herein unless otherwise indicated refers to cell growth that is independent of normal regulatory mechanisms. This includes for example the abnormal growth of 1 tumor cells tumors that proliferate by expressing a mutated tyrosine kinase or overexpression of a receptor tyrosine kinase 2 benign and malignant cells of other proliferative diseases in which aberrant tyrosine kinase activation occurs 3 any tumors that proliferate by receptor tyrosine kinases 4 any tumors that proliferate by aberrant serine threonine kinase activation and 5 benign and malignant cells of other proliferative diseases in which aberrant serine threonine kinase activation occurs.

The terms cancer and cancerous refer to or describe the physiological condition in mammals that is typically characterized by unregulated cell growth. A tumor comprises one or more cancerous cells. Tumors include solid and liquid tumors. Examples of cancer include but are not limited to carcinoma lymphoma blastoma sarcoma myeloma and leukemia or lymphoid malignancies. More particular examples of such cancers include squamous cell cancer e.g. epithelial squamous cell cancer lung cancer including small cell lung cancer non small cell lung cancer NSCLC adenocarcinoma of the lung and squamous carcinoma of the lung cancer of the peritoneum hepatocellular cancer gastric or stomach cancer including gastrointestinal cancer pancreatic cancer glioblastoma cervical cancer ovarian cancer liver cancer bladder cancer hepatoma breast cancer colon cancer rectal cancer colorectal cancer malignant brain tumors melanoma endometrial or uterine carcinoma salivary gland carcinoma kidney or renal cancer prostate cancer vulval cancer thyroid cancer hepatic carcinoma anal carcinoma penile carcinoma head and neck cancer as well as acute myelogenous leukemia AML .

A chemotherapeutic agent is a chemical compound useful in the treatment of cancer. Examples of chemotherapeutic agents include Erlotinib TARCEVA Genentech OSI Pharm. Bortezomib VELCADE Millennium Pharm. Fulvestrant FASLODEX AstraZeneca Sutent SU11248 Pfizer Letrozole FEMARA Novartis Imatinib mesylate GLEEVEC Novartis PTK787 ZK 222584 Novartis Oxaliplatin Eloxatin Sanofi Leucovorin Rapamycin Sirolimus RAPAMUNE Wyeth Lapatinib TYKERB GSK572016 Glaxo Smith Kline Lonafarnib SCH 66336 Sorafenib BAY43 9006 Bayer Labs and Gefitinib IRESSA AstraZeneca AG1478 AG1571 SU 5271 Sugen alkyl sulfonates such as busulfan improsulfan and piposulfan aziridines such as benzodopa carboquone meturedopa and uredopa ethylenimines and methylamelamines including altretamine triethylenemelamine triethylenephosphoramide triethylenethiophosphoramide and trimethylomelamine acetogenins especially bullatacin and bullatacinone bryostatin callystatin CC 1065 including its adozelesin carzelesin and bizelesin synthetic analogs cryptophycins particularly cryptophycin 1 and cryptophycin 8 dolastatin duocarmycin including the synthetic analogs KW 2189 and CB1 TM1 eleutherobin pancratistatin a sarcodictyin spongistatin folic acid analogs such as denopterin methotrexate pteropterin trimetrexate purine analogs such as fludarabine 6 mercaptopurine thiamiprine thioguanine pyrimidine analogs such as ancitabine azacitidine 6 azauridine carmofur cytarabine dideoxyuridine doxifluridine enocitabine floxuridine androgens such as calusterone dromostanolone propionate epitiostanol mepitiostane testolactone anti adrenals such as aminoglutethimide mitotane trilostane folic acid replenisher such as frolinic acid aceglatone aldophosphamide glycoside aminolevulinic acid eniluracil bestrabucil bisantrene edatraxate defofamine demecolcine diaziquone elformithine elliptinium acetate an epothilone etoglucid gallium nitrate lentinan lonidainine maytansinoids such as maytansine and ansamitocins mitoguazone mitoxantrone mopidanmol nitraerine pentostatin phenamet pirarubicin losoxantrone podophyllinic acid 2 ethylhydrazide procarbazine PSK polysaccharide complex JHS Natural Products Eugene Oreg. razoxane rhizoxin sizofuran spirogermanium tenuazonic acid triaziquone 2 2 2 trichlorotriethylamine trichothecenes especially T 2 toxin verracurin A roridin A and anguidine urethan dacarbazine mannomustine mitobronitol mitolactol pipobroman gacytosine arabinoside Ara C chloranmbucil 6 thioguanine mercaptopurine ifosfamide mitoxantrone novantrone edatrexate daunomycin aminopterin capecitabine XELODA ibandronate CPT 11 difluoromethylornithine DMFO and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids and derivatives of any of the above.

Also included in the definition of chemotherapeutic agent are i anti hormonal agents that act to regulate or inhibit hormone action on tumors such as anti estrogens and selective estrogen receptor modulators SERMs including for example tamoxifen including NOLVADEX tamoxifen citrate raloxifene droloxifene 4 hydroxytamoxifen trioxifene keoxifene LY117018 onapristone and FARESTON toremifine citrate ii aromatase inhibitors that inhibit the enzyme aromatase which regulates estrogen production in the adrenal glands such as for example 4 5 imidazoles aminoglutethimide MEGASE megestrol acetate AROMASIN exemestane Pfizer formestanie fadrozole RIVISOR vorozole FEMARA letrozole Novartis and ARIMIDEX anastrozole AstraZeneca iii anti androgens such as flutamide nilutamide bicalutamide leuprolide and goserelin as well as troxacitabine a 1 3 dioxolane nucleoside cytosine analog iv protein kinase inhibitors v lipid kinase inhibitors vi antisense oligonucleotides particularly those which inhibit expression of genes in signaling pathways implicated in aberrant cell proliferation such as for example PKC alpha Ralf and H Ras vii ribozymes such as VEGF expression inhibitors e.g. ANGIOZYME and HER2 expression inhibitors viii vaccines such as gene therapy vaccines for example ALLOVECTIN LEUVECTIN and VAXID PROLEUKIN rIL 2 a topoisomerase 1 inhibitor such as LURTOTECAN ABARELIX rmRH ix anti angiogenic agents such as bevacizumab AVASTIN Genentech and x pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids and derivatives of any of the above.

Other examples of chemotherapeutic agents that can be used in combination with the present compounds include inhibitors of MEK MAP kinase kinase such as XL518 Exelixis Inc. and AZD6244 Astrazeneca inhibitors of Raf such as XL281 Exelixis Inc. PLX4032 Plexxikon and ISIS5132 Isis Pharmaceuticals inhibitors of mTor mammalian target of rapamycin such as rapamycin AP23573 Ariad Pharmaceuticals temsirolimus Wyeth Pharmaceuticals and RAD001 Novartis inhibitors of PI3K phosphoinositide 3 kinase such as SF 1126 PI3K inhibitor Semafore Pharmaceuticals BEZ 235 PI3K inhibitor Novartis XL 147 PI3K inhibitor Exelixis Inc. and GDC 0941 Genentech inhibitors of cMet such as PHA665752 Pfizer XL 880 Exelixis Inc. ARQ 197 ArQule and CE 355621 and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids and derivatives of any of the above.

Examples of a chemotherapeutic agent also include a DNA damaging agent such as thiotepa and CYTOXAN cyclosphosphamide alkylating agents for example cis platin carboplatin cyclophosphamide nitrogen mustards such as chlorambucil chlornaphazine chlorophosphamide estramustine ifosfamide mechlorethamine mechlorethamine oxide hydrochloride melphalan novembichin phenesterine prednimustine trofosfamide uracil mustard busulphan nitrosoureas such as carmustine chlorozotocin fotemustine lomustine nimustine and ranimnustine and temozolomide antimetabolites for example antifolates such as fluoropyrimidines like 5 fluorouracil 5 FU and tegafur raltitrexed methotrexate cytosine arabinoside hydroxyurea and GEMZAR gemcitabine antitumour antibiotics such as the enediyne antibiotics e.g. calicheamicin especially calicheamicin gamma1I and calicheamicin omegaI1 Angew Chem. Intl. Ed. Engl. 1994 33 183 186 anthracyclines like adriamycin dynemicin including dynemicin A bisphosphonates such as clodronate an esperamicin as well as neocarzinostatin chromophore and related chromoprotein enediyne antibiotic chromophores aclacinomysins actinomycin authramycin azaserine bleomycins cactinomycin carabicin caminomycin carzinophilin chromomycinis dactinomycin daunorubicin detorubicin 6 diazo 5 oxo L norleucine ADRIAMYCIN doxorubicin morpholino doxorubicin cyanomorpholino doxorubicin 2 pyrrolino doxorubicin and deoxydoxorubicin epirubicin esorubicin idarubicin marcellomycin mitomycins such as mitomycin C mycophenolic acid nogalamycin olivomycins peplomycin porfiromycin puromycin quelamycin rodorubicin streptonigrin streptozocin tubercidin ubenimex zinostatin and zorubicin antimitotic agents for example vinca alkaloids like vincristine vinblastine vindesine and NAVELBINE vinorelbine and taxoids like taxoids e.g. TAXOL paclitaxel Bristol Myers Squibb Oncology Princeton N.J. ABRAXANE Cremophor free albumin engineered nanoparticle formulations of paclitaxel American Pharmaceutical Partners Schaumberg Ill. and TAXOTERE doxetaxel Rh ne Poulenc Rorer Antony France topoisomerase inhibitors for example RFS 2000 epipodophyllotoxins like etoposide and teniposide amsacrine a camptothecin including the synthetic analog topotecan and irinotecan and SN 38 and cytodifferentiating agents for example retinoids such as all trans retinoic acid 13 cis retinoic acid and fenretinide and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids and derivatives of any of the above.

A chemotherapeutic agent also includes an agent that modulates the apoptotic response including inhibitors of IAP inhibitor of apoptosis proteins such as AEG40826 Aegera Therapeutics and inhibitors of bcl 2 such as GX15 070 Gemin X Biotechnologies CNDO103 Apogossypol Coronado Biosciences HA14 1 ethyl 2 amino 6 bromo 4 1 cyano 2 ethoxy 2 oxoethyl 4H chromene 3 carboxylate AT101 Ascenta Therapeutics ABT 737 and ABT 263 Abbott and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids and derivatives of any of the above.

The term prodrug as used in this application refers to a precursor or derivative form of a compound of the invention that is capable of being enzymatically or hydrolytically activated or converted into the more active parent form. See e.g. Wilman Prodrugs in Cancer Chemotherapy Biochemical Society Transactions 14 pp. 375 382 615th Meeting Belfast 1986 and Stella et al. Prodrugs A Chemical Approach to Targeted Drug Delivery Borchardt et al. ed. pp. 247 267 Humana Press 1985 . The prodrugs of this invention include but are not limited to ester containing prodrugs phosphate containing prodrugs thiophosphate containing prodrugs sulfate containing prodrugs peptide containing prodrugs D amino acid modified prodrugs glycosylated prodrugs lactam containing prodrugs optionally substituted phenoxyacetamide containing prodrugs optionally substituted phenylacetamide containing prodrugs 5 fluorocytosine and other 5 fluorouridine prodrugs which can be converted into the more active cytotoxic free drug. Examples of cytotoxic drugs that can be derivatized into a prodrug form for use in this invention include but are not limited to compounds of the invention and chemotherapeutic agents such as described above.

A metabolite is a product produced through metabolism in the body of a specified compound or salt thereof. Metabolites of a compound may be identified using routine techniques known in the art and their activities determined using tests such as those described herein. Such products may result for example from the oxidation hydroxylation reduction hydrolysis amidation deamidation esterification deesterification enzymatic cleavage and the like of the administered compound. Accordingly the invention includes metabolites of compounds of the invention including compounds produced by a process comprising contacting a compound of this invention with a mammal for a period of time sufficient to yield a metabolic product thereof.

A liposome is a small vesicle composed of various types of lipids phospholipids and or surfactant which is useful for delivery of a drug such as chk inhibitors disclosed herein and optionally a chemotherapeutic agent to a mammal. The components of the liposome are commonly arranged in a bilayer formation similar to the lipid arrangement of biological membranes.

The term package insert is used to refer to instructions customarily included in commercial packages of therapeutic products that contain information about the indications usage dosage administration contraindications and or warnings concerning the use of such therapeutic products.

The term chiral refers to molecules which have the property of non superimposability of the mirror image partner while the term achiral refers to molecules which are superimposable on their mirror image partner.

The term stereoisomer refers to compounds which have identical chemical constitution and connectivity but different orientations of their atoms in space that cannot be interconverted by rotation about single bonds.

 Diastereomer refers to a stereoisomer with two or more centers of chirality and whose molecules are not mirror images of one another. Diastereomers have different physical properties e.g. melting points boiling points spectral properties and reactivities. Mixtures of diastereomers may separate under high resolution analytical procedures such as crystallization electrophoresis and chromatography.

 Enantiomers refer to two stereoisomers of a compound which are non superimposable mirror images of one another.

Stereochemical definitions and conventions used herein generally follow S. P. Parker Ed. McGraw Hill 1984 McGraw Hill Book Company New York and Eliel E. and Wilen S. Stereochemistry of Organic Compounds John Wiley Sons Inc. New York 1994. The compounds of the invention may contain asymmetric or chiral centers and therefore exist in different stereoisomeric forms. It is intended that all stereoisomeric forms of the compounds of the invention including but not limited to diastereomers enantiomers and atropisomers as well as mixtures thereof such as racemic mixtures form part of the present invention. Many organic compounds exist in optically active forms i.e. they have the ability to rotate the plane of plane polarized light. In describing an optically active compound the prefixes D and L or R and S are used to denote the absolute configuration of the molecule about its chiral center s . The prefixes d and l or and are employed to designate the sign of rotation of plane polarized light by the compound with or l meaning that the compound is levorotatory. A compound prefixed with or d is dextrorotatory. For a given chemical structure these stereoisomers are identical except that they are mirror images of one another. A specific stereoisomer may also be referred to as an enantiomer and a mixture of such isomers is often called an enantiomeric mixture. A 50 50 mixture of enantiomers is referred to as a racemic mixture or a racemate which may occur where there has been no stereoselection or stereospecificity in a chemical reaction or process. The terms racemic mixture and racemate refer to an equimolar mixture of two enantiomeric species devoid of optical activity.

The term tautomer or tautomeric form refers to structural isomers of different energies which are interconvertible via a low energy barrier. For example proton tautomers also known as prototropic tautomers include interconversions via migration of a proton such as keto enol and imine enamine isomerizations. Valence tautomers include interconversions by reorganization of some of the bonding electrons. For example any reference to a structure of 2 hydroxypyridine include its tautomer 2 oxo 1 2 dihydropyridine also known as 2 pyridone and vice versa.

The phrase pharmaceutically acceptable salt as used herein refers to pharmaceutically acceptable organic or inorganic salts of a compound of the invention. Exemplary salts include but are not limited to sulfate citrate acetate oxalate chloride bromide iodide nitrate bisulfate phosphate acid phosphate isonicotinate lactate salicylate acid citrate tartrate oleate tannate pantothenate bitartrate ascorbate succinate maleate gentisinate fumarate gluconate glucuronate saccharate formate benzoate glutamate methanesulfonate mesylate ethanesulfonate benzenesulfonate p toluenesulfonate pamoate i.e. 1 1 methylene bis 2 hydroxy 3 naphthoate salts alkali metal e.g. sodium and potassium salts alkaline earth metal e.g. magnesium salts and ammonium salts. A pharmaceutically acceptable salt may involve the inclusion of another molecule such as an acetate ion a succinate ion or other counter ion. The counter ion may be any organic or inorganic moiety that stabilizes the charge on the parent compound. Furthermore a pharmaceutically acceptable salt may have more than one charged atom in its structure. Instances where multiple charged atoms are part of the pharmaceutically acceptable salt can have multiple counter ions. Hence a pharmaceutically acceptable salt can have one or more charged atoms and or one or more counter ion.

If the compound of the invention is a base the desired pharmaceutically acceptable salt may be prepared by any suitable method available in the art for example treatment of the free base with an inorganic acid such as hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid sulfuric acid nitric acid phosphoric acid and the like or with an organic acid such as acetic acid methanesulfonic acid maleic acid succinic acid mandelic acid fumaric acid malonic acid pyruvic acid oxalic acid glycolic acid salicylic acid a pyranosidyl acid such as glucuronic acid or galacturonic acid an alpha hydroxy acid such as citric acid or tartaric acid an amino acid such as aspartic acid or glutamic acid an aromatic acid such as benzoic acid or cinnamic acid a sulfonic acid such as p toluenesulfonic acid or ethanesulfonic acid or the like.

If the compound of the invention is an acid the desired pharmaceutically acceptable salt may be prepared by any suitable method for example treatment of the free acid with an inorganic or organic base such as an amine primary secondary or tertiary an alkali metal hydroxide or alkaline earth metal hydroxide or the like. Illustrative examples of suitable salts include but are not limited to organic salts derived from amino acids such as glycine and arginine ammonia primary secondary and tertiary amines and cyclic amines such as piperidine morpholine and piperazine and inorganic salts derived from sodium calcium potassium magnesium manganese iron copper zinc aluminum and lithium.

The phrase pharmaceutically acceptable indicates that the substance or composition must be compatible chemically and or toxicologically with the other ingredients comprising a formulation and or the mammal being treated therewith.

A solvate refers to an association or complex of one or more solvent molecules and a compound of the invention. Examples of solvents that form solvates include but are not limited to water isopropanol ethanol methanol DMSO ethyl acetate acetic acid and ethanolamine. The term hydrate refers to the complex where the solvent molecule is water.

The term protecting group refers to a substituent that is commonly employed to block or protect a particular functionality while reacting other functional groups on the compound. For example an amino protecting group is a substituent attached to an amino group that blocks or protects the amino functionality in the compound. Suitable amino protecting groups include acetyl trifluoroacetyl t butoxycarbonyl BOC benzyloxycarbonyl CBZ 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxymethyl SEM and 9 fluorenylmethylenoxycarbonyl Fmoc . Similarly a hydroxy protecting group refers to a substituent of a hydroxy group that blocks or protects the hydroxy functionality. Suitable protecting groups include acetyl and t butyldimethylsilyl. A carboxy protecting group refers to a substituent of the carboxy group that blocks or protects the carboxy functionality. Common carboxy protecting groups include phenylsulfonylethyl cyanoethyl 2 trimethylsilyl ethyl 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxymethyl 2 p toluenesulfonyl ethyl 2 p nitrophenylsulfenyl ethyl 2 diphenylphosphino ethyl nitroethyl and the like. For a general description of protecting groups and their use see T. W. Greene Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis John Wiley Sons New York 1991.

The terms compound of this invention and compounds of the present invention and compounds of Formula I unless otherwise indicated include compounds of Formula I and stereoisomers geometric isomers tautomers solvates metabolites salts e.g. pharmaceutically acceptable salts and prodrugs thereof. Unless otherwise stated structures depicted herein are also meant to include compounds that differ only in the presence of one or more isotopically enriched atoms. For example compounds of Formula I wherein one or more hydrogen atoms are replaced deuterium or tritium or one or more carbon atoms are replaced by a C or C enriched carbon are within the scope of this invention.

The present invention provides substituted pyrroles of Formula I and or solvates hydrates and or salts thereof as described above with kinase inhibitory activity such as chk1 chk2 GSK 3 KDR and or FLT3 inhibitory activities. The present compounds are particularly useful as chk1 kinase inhibitors.

In certain embodiments of the present invention Ris phenyl substituted with one to three groups independently selected from halo CN CF OCF NO C O OR C O NRR NRR OR S O R NRC O R NRC O OR NRC O NRR NRSOR OC O R OC O NRR S O NRR and R and all other variables are as defined in Formula I . In certain embodiments of the present invention Ris phenyl substituted with one to three groups independently selected from halo CN and CF and all other variables are as defined in Formula I .

In certain embodiments of the present invention Ris H and all other variables are as defined in Formula I or as defined in any one of the embodiments above.

In certain embodiments of the present invention Ris H and all other variables are as defined in Formula I or as defined in any one of the embodiments above.

In certain embodiments of the present invention Ris H cycloalkyl or heterocyclyl wherein said cycloalkyl and heterocyclyl are optionally substituted with one to three groups independently selected from halo CN CF OCF NO C O OR C O NRR NRR S O R NRC O R NRC O OR NRC O NRR NRSOR OC O R OC O NRR S O NRR and R and all other variables are as defined in Formula I or as defined in any one of the embodiments above.

In certain embodiments of the present invention Ris cycloalkyl optionally substituted with one to three groups independently selected from halo CN CF OCF NO C O OR C O NRR NRR S O R NRC O R NRC O OR NRC O NRR NRSOR OC O R OC O NRR S O NRR and R and all other variables are as defined in Formula I or as defined in any one of the embodiments above. In certain embodiments of the present invention Ris cycloalkyl optionally substituted with NRR and all other variables are as defined in Formula I or as defined in any one of the embodiments above.

In certain embodiments of the present invention Ris 4 7 membered monocyclic or 8 10 membered bicyclic saturated heterocyclyl wherein said heterocyclyl is optionally substituted with one to three groups independently selected from halo CN CF NO C O OR C O NRR NRR OR S O R NRC O R NRC O OR NRC O NRR NRSOR OC O R OC O NRR S O NRR and R and all other variables are as defined in Formula I or as defined in any one of the embodiments above.

In certain embodiments of the present invention Ris piperidinyl pyrrolidinyl azepanyl or azetidinyl wherein said piperidinyl pyrrolidinyl azepanyl or azetidinyl is optionally substituted with one to three groups independently selected from halo CN CF OCF NO C O OR C O NRR NRR S O R NRC O R NRC O OR NRC O NRR NRSOR OC O R OC O NRR S O NRR and R and all other variables are as defined in Formula I or as defined in any one of the embodiments above. In certain embodiments of the present invention Ris piperidinyl and all other variables are as defined in Formula I or as defined in any one of the embodiments above.

In certain embodiments of the present invention Rand Rare optionally taken together with the attached N atom to form a 4 10 membered monocyclic or bicyclic ring having additional 0 2 heteroatoms selected from O S and N said ring being optionally substituted with one to five groups independently selected from halo CN CF OCF NO C O OR C O NRR NRR OR S O R NRC O R NRC O OR NRC O NRR NRSOR OC O R OC O NRR S O NRR and R and all other variables are as defined in Formula I or as defined in any one of the embodiments above.

In certain embodiments of the present invention X is O and all other variables are as defined in Formula I or as defined in any one of the embodiments above. In certain embodiments of the present invention X is N R and Ris H or CN and all other variables are as defined in Formula I or as defined in any one of the embodiments above.

In certain embodiments of the present invention Ris H CH CHCH n propyl i propyl CHCHOH CHCHOCH CHCHCHOH CHCHCHOCH cyclopropyl CH cyclopropyl CHCHF CHCHF or CHCF and all other variables are as defined in Formula I or as defined in any one of the embodiments above. In certain embodiments of the present invention Ris cyclobutyl N 3 oxetanyl 2 oxetanyl methyl 3 oxetanyl methyl 2 tetrahydrofuranyl methyl or 3 tetrahydrofuranyl methyl and all other variables are as defined in Formula I or as defined in any one of the embodiments above.

In certain embodiments of the present invention Ris H and all other variables are as defined in Formula I or as defined in any one of the embodiments above.

The present compounds are prepared according to the procedures described in the schemes below or by methods known in the art. The starting materials may be obtained from commercial sources prepared from commercially available compounds or prepared using known synthetic methods.

For example N aryl pyrroles of formula 1 9 2 6 3 3 or 4 12 may be prepared using the synthetic routes outlined in Schemes 1 4.

Compounds of formula 1 1 can be obtained from commercial sources prepared from commercially available compounds or prepared using well known synthetic methods. They may be reacted with an alpha haloacetate such as tert butyl bromoacetate in the presence of a base such as triethylamine or N N diisopropylamine with the optional addition of a phase transfer catalyst such as tert butylammonium iodide in a suitable solvent such as THF acetonitrile or N N dimethylformamide at a temperature between room temperature and 65 C. to obtain compounds of formula 1 2 .

Compounds of formula 1 2 may be converted to compounds of formula 1 3 by reaction with an alkoxyacrylonitrile such as ethyl ethoxymethylene cyanoacetate in the presence of a base such as 1 8 diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undec 7 ene in a suitable solvent such as toluene at a temperature between room temperature and 120 C.

Compounds of formula 1 4 may be obtained from compounds of formula 1 3 by reaction with trifluoroacetic acid with the optional addition of a suitable solvent such as dichloromethane at a temperature between room temperature and the reflux temperature of the solvent. Alternatively compounds of formula 1 4 may be obtained from compounds of formula 1 3 by reaction with an acid such as 0.5 6.0 N hydrochloric acid in a suitable solvent such as 1 4 dioxane at a temperature between room temperature and the reflux temperature of the solvent.

Compounds of formula 1 5 can be obtained from compounds of formula 1 4 by reaction with trichloroacetyl isocyanate in a suitable solvent such as tetrahydrofuran N N dimethylformamide or dichloromethane at a temperature between 0 C. and room temperature.

Intermediates of formula 1 5 can be reacted with an amine 1 6 such as ammonia in a suitable solvent such as methanol at a temperature between 0 C. and room temperature to obtain the compounds of formula 1 7 .

Compounds of formula VI 1 7 can be reacted with an amine 1 8 such as S 3 amino 1 Boc piperidine in the presence of a Lewis acid such as trimethylaluminium in an inert solvent such as tetrahydrofuran at a temperature between room temperature and 65 C. It is to be understood that if compounds of formula 1 7 or 1 8 contain a protecting group it may be necessary to deprotect the resultant products to yield compounds of formula 1 9 or salts thereof which can then be converted into the corresponding free base or other pharmaceutically acceptable salts by standard methods.

Compounds of formula 2 1 and intermediates of formula 2 2 may be prepared using the synthetic routes outlined in Scheme 1.

Intermediates of formula 2 4 may be prepared by treatment of intermediate 2 2 with an alkyl isocyanate 2 3 in a suitable solvent such as THF or diethyl ether at a temperature between 0 C. and room temperature.

Compounds of formula 2 4 can be reacted with an amine 2 5 such as S 3 amino 1 Boc piperidine in the presence of a Lewis acid such as trimethylaluminium in an inert solvent such as tetrahydrofuran at a temperature between room temperature and 65 C. The resultant products may require deprotection to yield compounds of formula 2 6 or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof.

Intermediates of formula 3 1 may be reacted with an amine 3 2 such as 2 methoxyethylamine or cyclopropanemethylamine in the presence of an acid such as acetic acid in a suitable high boiling solvent such as toluene at a temperature between 100 C. and 150 C. The resultant products may require deprotection to yield compounds of formula 3 3 or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof.

Compounds of formula 4 1 can be obtained from commercial sources prepared from commercially available compounds or prepared using well known synthetic methods. Compounds of formula 4 2 may be may be prepared by reacting compounds of formula 4 1 with a base such as sodium hydroxide or potassium hydroxide in a suitable solvent such as methanol or ethanol at a temperature between room temperature and 85 C.

Compounds of formula 4 2 may be converted to compounds of formula 4 3 by reaction with a dehydrating agent such as N N dicyclohexylcarbodiimide in a suitable solvent such as acetonitrile or THF at a temperature between room temperature and 50 C.

Compounds of formula 4 4 may be obtained from compounds of formula 4 3 by reaction with trimethylsilyl azide in a suitable solvent such as acetonitrile or THF at a temperature between room temperature and the reflux temperature of the solvent.

Compounds of formula 4 4 can be converted to compounds of formula 4 5 by reaction with ammonia in a suitable solvent such as dioxane or THF with the optional addition of a co solvent such as N N dimethylformamide at a temperature between room temperature and the reflux temperature of the solvent.

Compounds of formula 4 6 may be obtained from compounds of formula 4 5 by reaction with trimethylsilyl diazomethane in a suitable solvent such as THF with methanol at a temperature between room temperature and the reflux temperature of the solvent.

Compounds of formula 4 6 where Ris PG protecting group can be converted to compounds of formula 4 6 where Ris H where R H using standard deprotection methods as described above. Compounds of formula 4 6 where R H can be converted to compounds of formula 4 8 by reaction with an aryl halide or heteroaryl halide 4 7 in the presence of a suitable catalyst such as copper I bromide or copper I iodide with optional use of a ligand such as trans N N dimethyl 1 2 cyclohexanediamine or 1 10 phenanthroline in the presence of a suitable base such as potassium phosphate in a suitable solvent such as N N dimethylformamide or toluene at a temperature between room temperature and the reflux temperature of the solvent.

Compounds of formula 4 10 may be obtained from compounds of formula 4 6 where Ris R or from compounds of formula 4 8 by reaction with an amine 4 9 such as S 3 amino 1 Boc piperidine in the presence of a Lewis acid such as trimethylaluminium in an inert solvent such as tetrahydrofuran at a temperature between room temperature and 65 C.

Intermediates of formula 4 10 may be reacted with an amine 4 11 in the presence of an acid such as acetic acid in a suitable high boiling solvent such as toluene at a temperature between 100 C. and 150 C. The resultant products may require deprotection to yield compounds of formula 4 12 or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof.

It will be appreciated that where appropriate functional groups exist compounds of formula 1 9 2 6 3 3 or 4 12 or any intermediates used in their preparation may be further derivatised by one or more standard synthetic methods employing substitution oxidation reduction or cleavage reactions. Particular substitution approaches include conventional alkylation arylation heteroarylation acylation sulfonylation halogenation nitration formylation and coupling procedures.

In a further example primary amine NH groups may be alkylated using a reductive alkylation process employing an aldehyde or a ketone and a borohydride for example sodium triacetoxyborohydride or sodium cyanoborohydride in a solvent such as a halogenated hydrocarbon for example 1 2 dichloroethane or an alcohol such as ethanol where necessary in the presence of an acid such as acetic acid at around ambient temperature. Secondary amine NH groups may be similarly alkylated employing an aldehyde.

In a further example primary amine or secondary amine groups may be converted into amide groups NHCOR or NRCOR by acylation. Acylation may be achieved by reaction with an appropriate acid chloride in the presence of a base such as triethylamine in a suitable solvent such as dichloromethane or by reaction with an appropriate carboxylic acid in the presence of a suitable coupling agent such HATU O 7 azabenzotriazol 1 yl N N N N tetramethyluronium hexafluorophosphate in a suitable solvent such as dichloromethane. Similarly amine groups may be converted into sulphonamide groups NHSOR or NR SOR groups by reaction with an appropriate sulphonyl chloride in the presence of a suitable base such as triethylamine in a suitable solvent such as dichloromethane. Primary or secondary amine groups can be converted into urea groups NHCONR R or NRCONR R by reaction with an appropriate isocyanate in the presence of a suitable base such as triethylamine in a suitable solvent such as dichloromethane.

An amine NH may be obtained by reduction of a nitro NO group for example by catalytic hydrogenation using for example hydrogen in the presence of a metal catalyst for example palladium on a support such as carbon in a solvent such as ethyl acetate or an alcohol e.g. methanol. Alternatively the transformation may be carried out by chemical reduction using for example a metal e.g. tin or iron in the presence of an acid such as hydrochloric acid.

In a further example amine CHNH groups may be obtained by reduction of nitriles CN for example by catalytic hydrogenation using for example hydrogen in the presence of a metal catalyst for example palladium on a support such as carbon or Raney nickel in a solvent such as an ether e.g. a cyclic ether such as tetrahydrofuran at a temperature from 78 C. to the reflux temperature of the solvent.

In a further example amine NH groups may be obtained from carboxylic acid groups COH by conversion to the corresponding acyl azide CON Curtius rearrangement and hydrolysis of the resultant isocyanate N C O .

Aldehyde groups CHO may be converted to amine groups CHNR R by reductive amination employing an amine and a borohydride for example sodium triacetoxyborohydride or sodium cyanoborohydride in a solvent such as a halogenated hydrocarbon for example dichloromethane or an alcohol such as ethanol where necessary in the presence of an acid such as acetic acid at around ambient temperature.

In a further example aldehyde groups may be converted into alkenyl groups CH CHR by the use of a Wittig or Wadsworth Emmons reaction using an appropriate phosphorane or phosphonate under standard conditions known to those skilled in the art.

Aldehyde groups may be obtained by reduction of ester groups such as COEt or nitriles CN using diisobutylaluminium hydride in a suitable solvent such as toluene. Alternatively aldehyde groups may be obtained by the oxidation of alcohol groups using any suitable oxidising agent known to those skilled in the art.

Ester groups COR may be converted into the corresponding acid group COH by acid or base catalysed hydrolysis depending on the nature of R. If R is t butyl acid catalysed hydrolysis can be achieved for example by treatment with an organic acid such as trifluoroacetic acid in an aqueous solvent or by treatment with an inorganic acid such as hydrochloric acid in an aqueous solvent.

Carboxylic acid groups COH may be converted into amides CONHR or CONR R by reaction with an appropriate amine in the presence of a suitable coupling agent such as HATU in a suitable solvent such as dichloromethane.

In a further example carboxylic acids may be homologated by one carbon i.e COH to CHCOH by conversion to the corresponding acid chloride COCl followed by Arndt Eistert synthesis.

In a further example OH groups may be generated from the corresponding ester e.g. COR or aldehyde CHO by reduction using for example a complex metal hydride such as lithium aluminium hydride in diethyl ether or tetrahydrofuran or sodium borohydride in a solvent such as methanol. Alternatively an alcohol may be prepared by reduction of the corresponding acid COH using for example lithium aluminium hydride in a solvent such as tetrahydrofuran or by using borane in a solvent such as tetrahydrofuran.

Alcohol groups may be converted into leaving groups such as halogen atoms or sulfonyloxy groups such as an alkylsulfonyloxy e.g. trifluoromethylsulfonyloxy or arylsulfonyloxy e.g. p toluenesulfonyloxy group using conditions known to those skilled in the art. For example an alcohol may be reacted with thioyl chloride in a halogenated hydrocarbon e.g. dichloromethane to yield the corresponding chloride. A base e.g. triethylamine may also be used in the reaction.

In another example alcohol phenol or amide groups may be alkylated by coupling a phenol or amide with an alcohol in a solvent such as tetrahydrofuran in the presence of a phosphine e.g. triphenylphosphine and an activator such as diethyl diisopropyl or dimethylazodicarboxylate. Alternatively alkylation may be achieved by deprotonation using a suitable base e.g. sodium hydride followed by subsequent addition of an alkylating agent such as an alkyl halide.

Aromatic halogen substituents in the compounds may be subjected to halogen metal exchange by treatment with a base for example a lithium base such as n butyl or t butyl lithium optionally at a low temperature e.g. around 78 C. in a solvent such as tetrahydrofuran and then quenched with an electrophile to introduce a desired substituent. Thus for example a formyl group may be introduced by using N N dimethylformamide as the electrophile. Aromatic halogen substituents may alternatively be subjected to metal e.g. palladium or copper catalysed reactions to introduce for example acid ester cyano amide aryl heteraryl alkenyl alkynyl thio or amino substituents. Suitable procedures which may be employed include those described by Heck Suzuki Stille Buchwald or Hartwig.

Aromatic halogen substituents may also undergo nucleophilic displacement following reaction with an appropriate nucleophile such as an amine or an alcohol. Advantageously such a reaction may be carried out at elevated temperature in the presence of microwave irradiation.

The compounds of the present invention are tested for their capacity to inhibit chk1 activity and activation primary assays and for their biological effects on growing cells secondary assays as described below. The compounds having ICof less than 10 M more preferably less than 5 M even more preferably less than 1 M most preferably less than 0.5 M in the chk1 activity and activation assay of Example i and ECof less than 10 M more preferably less than 5 M most preferably less than 1 M in the cellular assay of Example ii are useful as chk1 inhibitors.

The present invention includes a composition e.g. a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of Formula I and or solvates hydrates and or salts thereof and a carrier a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier . The present invention also includes a composition e.g. a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of Formula I and or solvates hydrates and or salts thereof and a carrier a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier further comprising a second chemotherapeutic agent such as those described herein. The present invention also includes a composition e.g. a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of Formula I and or solvates hydrates and or salts thereof and a carrier a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier further comprising a second chemotherapeutic agent such as a DNA damaging agent including those described herein. The present compositions are useful for inhibiting abnormal cell growth or treating a hyperproliferative disorder such as cancer in a mammal e.g. human . For example the present compounds and compositions are useful for treating breast cancer colorectal cancer ovarian cancer non small cell lung cancer malignant brain tumors sarcomas melanoma lymphoma myelomas and or leukemia in a mammal e.g. human .

The present invention includes a method of inhibiting abnormal cell growth or treating a hyperproliferative disorder such as cancer in a mammal e.g. human comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I and or solvates hydrates and or salts thereof or a composition thereof. For example the present invention includes a method of treating breast cancer colorectal cancer ovarian cancer non small cell lung cancer malignant brain tumors sarcomas melanoma lymphoma myelomas and or leukemia in a mammal e.g. human comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I and or solvates hydrates and or salts thereof or a composition thereof.

The present invention includes a method of inhibiting abnormal cell growth or treating a hyperproliferative disorder such as cancer in a mammal e.g. human comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I and or solvates hydrates and or salts thereof or a composition thereof in combination with a second chemotherapeutic agent such as those described herein. The present invention also includes a method of inhibiting abnormal cell growth or treating a hyperproliferative disorder such as cancer in a mammal e.g. human comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I and or solvates hydrates and or salts thereof or a composition thereof in combination with a second chemotherapeutic agent such as a DNA damaging agent including those described herein. For example the present invention includes a method of treating breast cancer colorectal cancer ovarian cancer non small cell lung cancer malignant brain tumors sarcomas melanoma lymphoma myelomas and or leukemia in a mammal e.g. human comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I and or solvates hydrates and or salts thereof or a composition thereof in combination with a second chemotherapeutic agent such as those described herein. the present invention includes a method of treating breast cancer colorectal cancer ovarian cancer non small cell lung cancer malignant brain tumors sarcomas melanoma lymphoma myelomas and or leukemia in a mammal e.g. human comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I and or solvates hydrates and or salts thereof or a composition thereof in combination with a second chemotherapeutic agent such as a DNA damaging agent including those described herein.

The present invention includes a method of using the present compounds for in vitro in situ and in vivo diagnosis or treatment of mammalian cells organisms or associated pathological conditions.

Administration of the compounds of the present invention hereinafter the active compound s can be effected by any method that enables delivery of the compounds to the site of action. These methods include oral routes intraduodenal routes parenteral injection including intravenous subcutaneous intramuscular intravascular or infusion topical inhalation and rectal administration.

The amount of the active compound administered will be dependent on the subject being treated the severity of the disorder or condition the rate of administration the disposition of the compound and the discretion of the prescribing physician. However an effective dosage is in the range of about 0.001 to about 100 mg per kg body weight per day preferably about 1 to about 35 mg kg day in single or divided doses. For a 70 kg human this would amount to about 0.05 to 7 g day preferably about 0.05 to about 2.5 g day. In some instances dosage levels below the lower limit of the aforesaid range may be more than adequate while in other cases still larger doses may be employed without causing any harmful side effect provided that such larger doses are first divided into several small doses for administration throughout the day.

The active compound may be applied as a sole therapy or in combination with one or more chemotherapeutic agents for example those described herein. Such conjoint treatment may be achieved by way of the simultaneous sequential or separate dosing of the individual components of treatment.

The pharmaceutical composition may for example be in a form suitable for oral administration as a tablet capsule pill powder sustained release formulations solution suspension for parenteral injection as a sterile solution suspension or emulsion for topical administration as an ointment or cream or for rectal administration as a suppository. The pharmaceutical composition may be in unit dosage forms suitable for single administration of precise dosages. The pharmaceutical composition will include a conventional pharmaceutical carrier or excipient and a compound according to the invention as an active ingredient. In addition it may include other medicinal or pharmaceutical agents carriers adjuvants etc.

Exemplary parenteral administration forms include solutions or suspensions of active compounds in sterile aqueous solutions for example aqueous propylene glycol or dextrose solutions. Such dosage forms can be suitably buffered if desired.

Suitable pharmaceutical carriers include inert diluents or fillers water and various organic solvents. The pharmaceutical compositions may if desired contain additional ingredients such as flavorings binders excipients and the like. Thus for oral administration tablets containing various excipients such as citric acid may be employed together with various disintegrants such as starch alginic acid and certain complex silicates and with binding agents such as sucrose gelatin and acacia. Additionally lubricating agents such as magnesium stearate sodium lauryl sulfate and talc are often useful for tableting purposes. Solid compositions of a similar type may also be employed in soft and hard filled gelatin capsules. Preferred materials therefore include lactose or milk sugar and high molecular weight polyethylene glycols. When aqueous suspensions or elixirs are desired for oral administration the active compound therein may be combined with various sweetening or flavoring agents coloring matters or dyes and if desired emulsifying agents or suspending agents together with diluents such as water ethanol propylene glycol glycerin or combinations thereof.

Methods of preparing various pharmaceutical compositions with a specific amount of active compound are known or will be apparent to those skilled in this art. For examples see Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences Mack Publishing Company Ester Pa. 15.sup.th Edition 1975 .

High Pressure Liquid Chromatography Mass Spectrometry LCMS experiments to determine retention times R and associated mass ions were performed using one of the following methods.

Method A Experiments performed on a Waters Micromass ZQ quadrupole mass spectrometer linked to a Hewlett Packard HP 1100 LC system with diode array detector. This system uses a Higgins Clipeus 5 micron C18 100 3.0 mm column and a 1 ml minute flow rate. The initial solvent system was 95 water containing 0.1 formic acid solvent A and 5 acetonitrile containing 0.1 formic acid solvent B for the first minute followed by a gradient up to 5 solvent A and 95 solvent B over the next 14 minutes. The final solvent system was held constant for a further 5 minutes.

Method B Experiments performed on a Waters Platform LC quadrupole mass spectrometer linked to a Hewlett Packard HP1100 LC system with diode array detector and 100 position autosampler using a Phenomenex Luna C18 2 30 4.6 mm column and a 2 ml minute flow rate. The solvent system was 95 water containing 0.1 formic acid solvent A and 5 acetonitrile containing 0.1 formic acid solvent B for the first 0.50 minutes followed by a gradient up to 5 solvent A and 95 solvent B over the next 4 minutes. The final solvent system was held constant for a further 0.50 minutes.

Microwave experiments were carried out using a Biotage Initiator 60 which uses a single mode resonator and dynamic field tuning. Temperature from 40 250 C. can be achieved and pressures of up to 30 bar can be reached.

Full length human mutant recombinant protein histidine tagged and expressed in insect cells is used as source of enzymatic activity Invitrogen chk1 from product PV3982 and Chk2 from product PV3983 .

The chk1 AlphaScreen assay is carried out for 30 minutes in the presence of 10 M ATP using biotinylated Akt substrate 1 peptide Cell Signalling Technology product 1065 as a substrate. Phosphorylation of the substrate is detected and quantified using AlphaScreen technology. This consists of an anti phospho Akt substrate 1 antibody Cell Signalling technology Product 9611 and two AlphaScreen beads Perkin Elmer one product coated with Protein A which binds the antibody Ig chain Product 6760137 and one coated with Streptavidin which binds the biotin on the biotinylated Akt substrate peptide 1 Product 6760002 . Chk1 activity results in the production of phosphorylated Akt substrate peptide 1 an event which causes the two bead species to be brought into close proximity in the presence of antibody leading to the generation of luminescence which is detected on a Perkin Elmer reader Fusion .

The ATP Radiometric ChK1 assay is carried out by incubation for 30 minutes in the presence of 10 M ATP containing 0.3 Ci P ATP per sample and using ChKTide peptide sequence KKKVSRSGLYRSPSMPENLNRPR as a substrate. Following acidification with 1 phosphoric acid and washing to remove unincorporated ATP phosphorylation of the substrate is detected and quantified by measurement of radioactivity incorporated using a Perkin Elmer Topcount.

The chk2 AlphaScreen assay is carried out for 30 minutes in the presence of 30 M ATP using biotinylated tyrosine hydroxylase ser 40 peptide Cell Signalling Technology product 1132 as a substrate. Phosphorylation of the substrate is detected and quantified using AlphaScreen technology. This consists of an anti phospho tyrosine hydroxylase ser 40 peptide antibody Cell Signalling technology Product 2791 and two AlphaScreen beads Perkin Elmer one product coated with Protein A which binds the antibody Ig chain Product 6760137 and one coated with Streptavidin which binds the biotin on the biotinylated tyrosine hydroxylase ser 40 peptide Product 6760002 . Chk2 activity results in the production of phosphorylated tyrosine hydroxylase peptide an event which causes the two bead species to be brought into close proximity in the presence of antibody leading to the generation of luminescence which is detected on a Perkin Elmer reader Fusion .

The ATP radiometric ChK2 assay is carried out by incubation for 30 minutes in the presence of 30 M ATP containing 0.3 Ci P ATP per sample and using ChKTide peptide sequence KKKVSRSGLYRSPSMPENLNRPR as a substrate. Following acidification with 1 phosphoric acid and washing to remove unincorporated ATP phosphorylation of the substrate is detected and quantified by measurement of radioactivity incorporated using a Perkin Elmer Topcount.

Test compounds are diluted in DMSO prior to addition to assay buffer the final DMSO concentration in the assay is 1 .

The ICis defined as the concentration at which a given test compound achieved 50 inhibition of the control. ICvalues are calculated using the XLfit software package version 2.0.5 .

Tested title compounds of EXAMPLES 1 21 exhibited an ICof less than 5 M in the assays described in EXAMPLE i against chk1.

Compounds are tested in a cellular assay using the human colorectal adenocarcinoma derived cell line HT 29 ATCC HTB 38 .

The cell line is maintained in DMEM F12 1 1 media Invitrogen Gibco 31331 supplemented with 10 FCS at 37 C. in a 5 COhumidified incubator.

Cells are seeded in 96 well plates at 30 000 cells well and after 24 h they are exposed to 20 nM SN 38 in 0.4 DMSO. One column of 8 wells on each plate was used to generate a maximum signal control. These cells are treated with 0.4 DMSO without SN 38. Cells are grown for a further 16 h then the media containing DMSO plus or minus SN 38 is removed and replaced with media containing 300 nM nocodazole alone to determine baseline or in combination with ten concentrations of chk1 inhibitor final DMSO concentration is 0.4 . Cells are grown for a further 24 h. The media is removed and replaced with 50 l lysis buffer containing protease inhibitors and phosphatase inhibitors. This buffer contains detergent to bring about cellular disruption. Following complete cellular disruption 25 l lysate is transferred to a MesoScale 96 well 4 spot plate coated with an antibody to Histone H3 MesoScale Discovery MSD Product K110EWA 3 which have been previously blocked with 3 bovine serum albumin in Tris buffered saline. Following the transfer of lysate to the MSD plate Histone H3 in the lysate is captured on the coated antibody by incubation at room temperature for 2 h. Following the capture step the plate is washed and then incubated with an antibody to phosphorylated Histone H3 which is conjugated with a Sulfo Tag. This tag gives a signal when in proximity to the electrode on the base of the MSD plate. Binding the tagged antibody to the captured protein allow detection on a MSD reader.

The ECis defined as the concentration at which a given compound achieves 50 decrease of the measured levels of phospho Histone H3 within the range of a normal sigmoidal dose response curve compared to the signal generated by 300 nM nocodazole alone. ECvalues are calculated using the XLfit software package version 2.0.5 or Graphpad Prism version 3.03 fitting a sigmoidal curve with a variable slope.

Tested title compounds of EXAMPLES 1 21 exhibited an ECof less than 10 M in the assay described in EXAMPLE ii.

General Method 1 Preparation of 4 arylamino acetic acid tert butyl esters To a solution of aniline 10.4 90.1 mmol 1.0 eq. TBAI 0.20 eq. and DIPEA 1.05 eq. in dry THF was added tert butylbromoacetate 1.01 1.05 eq. . The reaction mixture was stirred at a temperature between room temperature and 65 C. under a nitrogen atmosphere for a period of 16 64 hours. The reaction mixture was then partitioned between EtOAc or DCM and water. The organic phase was washed with water brine dried and concentrated. The resultant residue was then purified by flash chromatography silica 40 330 g column ISCO 0 40 EtOAc in pentane cyclohexane to afford the title compound.

Following general method 1 employing 3 fluoroaniline afforded the title compound as a yellow oil 19.3 g 95 H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.10 dt J 6.7 8.2 Hz 1H 6.42 m 1H 6.36 m 1H 6.27 dt J 11.4 2.3 Hz 1H 4.4 br. s 1H 3.77 s 2H 1.49 s 9H .

Following general method 1 employing 4 trifluoromethylaniline afforded the title compound as an off white solid 4.36 g 53 H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.42 d J 8.5 Hz 2H 6.59 d J 8.5 Hz 2H 4.60 br. s 1H 3.82 d J 5.2 Hz 2H 1.50 s 9H .

Following general method 1 employing 4 cyanoaniline afforded the title compound as an off white solid 6.38 g 67 H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.44 d J 8.7 Hz 2H 6.55 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 4.81 br. s 1H 3.82 d J 5.0 Hz 2H 1.50 s 9H .

Following general method 1 employing 4 chloro 3 fluoroaniline afforded the title compound as an off white solid 4.76 g 92 H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.17 7.09 m 1H 6.38 6.28 m 2H 4.45 br. s 1H 3.75 s 2H 1.49 s 8H .

Following general method 1 employing 4 amino 2 fluorobenzotrifluoride afforded the title compound as an off white solid 1.92 g 44 H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.34 t J 8.4 Hz 1H 6.38 6.26 m 2H 4.65 br. s 1H 3.79 s 2H 1.50 s 9H .

Following general method 1 employing 4 amino 2 chlorobenzotrifluoride afforded the title compound as an off white solid 6.65 g 84 H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.44 d J 8.7 Hz 1H 6.63 d J 2.4 Hz 1H 6.46 dd J 8.7 2.3 Hz 1H 4.45 br. s 1H 3.80 s 2H 1.50 s 9H .

General Method 2 Preparation of 3 amino 1 aryl 1H pyrrole 2 4 dicarboxylic acid 2 tert butyl ester 4 ethyl esters

To a solution of tert butyl N arylglycinate 3.8 85.8 mmol 1 eq. in toluene was added DBU 2.0 3.0 eq. and ethyl ethoxymethylene cyanoacetate 2.0 3.0 eq. . The reaction mixture was stirred at 110 120 C. under nitrogen atmosphere for 3 18 hours. The reaction mixture was then cooled treated with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution and partitioned between EtOAc or DCM and water. The aqueous layer was further extracted with EtOAc or DCM. The combined organic layers were washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution brine dried and concentrated. The crude residue was then purified by flash chromatography silica 80 330 g column ISCO 0 40 EtOAc in pentane hexane or 0 100 DCM in pentane to afford the title compound.

Following general method 2 employing 3 fluorophenylamino acetic acid tert butyl ester afforded the title compound as a pale yellow solid 9.5 g 32 LCMS method B R 4.22 min M H 349 H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.36 dt J 8.2 6.2 Hz 1H 7.18 s 1H 7.14 7.04 m 2H 7.00 dt J 9.3 2.2 Hz 1H 5.82 s 2H 4.29 q J 7.1 Hz 2H 1.33 t J 7.1 Hz 3H 1.30 s 9H .

Following general method 2 employing 4 trifluoromethylphenylamino acetic acid tert butyl ester afforded the title compound as an off white solid 1.86 g 41 LCMS method B R 4.59 min M H 399 H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 7.67 d J 8.3 Hz 2H 7.39 d J 8.2 Hz 2H 7.19 s 1H 5.82 br. s 2H 4.30 q J 7.1 Hz 2H 1.34 t J 7.1 Hz 3H 1.29 s 9H .

Following general method 2 employing 4 cyanophenylamino acetic acid tert butyl ester afforded the title compound as a white solid 6.26 g 65 LCMS method B R 3.98 min M H 356 H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.71 d J 8.3 Hz 2H 7.38 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.21 s 1H 5.84 s 2H 4.30 q J 7.1 Hz 2H 1.37 1.31 m 12H .

Following general method 2 employing 4 chloro 3 fluorophenylamino acetic acid tert butyl ester afforded the title compound as a white solid 2.20 g 31 LCMS method B R 4.42 min M H 383 H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.43 t J 8.2 Hz 1H 7.17 s 1H 7.10 dd J 9.3 2.4 Hz 1H 7.03 ddd J 8.5 2.4 1.2 Hz 1H 4.30 q J 7.1 Hz 2H 1.38 1.29 m 12H .

Following general method 2 employing 3 fluoro 4 trifluoromethylphenylamino acetic acid tert butyl ester afforded the title compound as an off white solid 1.68 g 62 LCMS method B R 4.43 min M H 417 H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.65 t J 8.1 Hz 1H 7.22 s 1H 7.21 7.13 m 2H 4.31 q J 7.1 Hz 2H 1.39 1.30 m 12H .

Following general method 2 employing 3 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenylamino acetic acid tert butyl ester afforded the title compound as a yellow solid 5.30 g 57 H NMR DMSO D 300 MHz 7.93 d J 8.5 Hz 1H 7.83 d J 2.0 Hz 1H 7.64 s 1H 7.57 dd J 8.4 2.0 Hz 1H 5.96 s 2H 4.23 q J 7.1 Hz 2H 1.27 t J 7.1 Hz 3H 1.23 s 9H .

To 3 amino 1 aryl 1H pyrrole 2 4 dicarboxylic acid 2 tert butyl ester 4 ethyl ester 0.15 4.63 mmol 1.0 eq. was added TFA 5.0 23 mL 40 eq. . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 3 hours and was then evaporated to dryness. To the resultant residue was added dry THF under nitrogen followed by dropwise addition of trichloroacetyl isocyanate 1.1 eq. . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 3 hours and then evaporated to dryness. To the resultant residue was added 2 N ammonia in methanol 10 eq. and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 16 hours. After this time the solvent was removed in vacuo to yield the crude residue. Where purification was required the resultant residue was loaded onto H MN and was then purified by flash chromatography silica 40 120 g column ISCO 0 100 EtOAc in DCM or 0 10 MeOH in DCM to afford the title compound.

Following general method 3 employing 3 amino 1 3 fluorophenyl 1H pyrrole 2 4 dicarboxylic acid 2 tert butyl ester 4 ethyl ester afforded the title compound as an orange oil 0.99 g 74 LCMS method B R 3.21 min M H 292 H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 8.50 s 1H 7.62 d J 2.7 Hz 1H 7.46 d J 2.7 Hz 1H 7.40 dt J 8.2 6.2 Hz 1H 7.23 ddd J 8.2 2.2 0.9 Hz 1H 7.16 dt J 9.8 2.2 Hz 1H 6.99 tdd J 8.2 2.2 0.9 Hz 1H 4.76 s 2H 4.31 q J 7.1 Hz 2H 1.37 t J 7.1 Hz 3H .

Following general method 3 employing 3 amino 1 3 fluorophenyl 1H pyrrole 2 4 dicarboxylic acid 2 tert butyl ester 4 ethyl ester afforded the title compound as an off white solid 0.50 g 58 LCMS method B R 3.52 min M H 342 H NMR DMSO D 400 MHz 8.34 s 1H 7.96 d J 2.8 Hz 1H 7.87 d J 8.7 Hz 2H 7.82 d J 8.7 Hz 2H 7.70 d J 2.7 Hz 1H 6.42 br. s 2H 4.29 q J 7.1 Hz 2H 1.32 t J 7.1 Hz 3H .

Following general method 3 employing 3 amino 1 3 cyanophenyl 1H pyrrole 2 4 dicarboxylic acid 2 tert butyl ester 4 ethyl ester afforded the title compound as an off white solid 0.226 g 61 LCMS method B R 3.02 min M H 299 H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 8.49 s 1H 7.76 7.71 m 2H 7.69 d J 2.7 Hz 1H 7.58 7.52 m 3H 4.66 s 2H 4.33 q J 7.1 Hz 2H 1.38 t J 7.1 Hz 3H .

Following general method 3 employing 3 amino 1 4 chloro 3 fluorophenyl 1H pyrrole 2 4 dicarboxylic acid 2 tert butyl ester 4 ethyl ester afforded the title compound as an off white solid 0.998 g 100 LCMS method B R 3.44 min M H 326 H NMR DMSO D 300 MHz 8.33 s 1H 7.92 d J 2.7 Hz 1H 7.88 dd J 11.0 2.6 Hz 1H 7.69 7.61 m 2H 7.55 7.50 m 1H 6.43 s 2H 4.28 q J 7.1 Hz 2H 1.31 t J 7.1 Hz 3H .

Following general method 3 employing 3 amino 1 3 fluoro 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl 1H pyrrole 2 4 dicarboxylic acid 2 tert butyl ester 4 ethyl ester afforded the title compound as a yellow solid 1.38 g 96 LCMS method B R 3.53 min M H 360 H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 8.49 s 1H 7.71 7.64 m 2H 7.51 d J 2.7 Hz 1H 7.35 7.27 m 2H 4.67 br. s 2H 4.33 q J 7.1 Hz 2H 1.38 t J 7.1 Hz 3H .

Following general method 3 employing 3 amino 1 3 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl 1H pyrrole 2 4 dicarboxylic acid 2 tert butyl ester 4 ethyl ester afforded the title compound as a yellow solid 1.73 g 100 LCMS method B R 3.70 min M H 376 H NMR DMSO D 300 MHz 8.42 s 2H 8.36 s 1H 8.30 s 2H 8.14 d J 2.2 Hz 1H 8.09 d J 2.3 Hz 1H 7.90 d J 8.8 Hz 1H 7.80 dd J 8.7 2.2 Hz 1H 7.73 d J 2.8 Hz 1H 6.46 s 2H 4.29 q J 7.1 Hz 2H 1.33 t J 7.1 Hz 3H .

General Method 4 Preparation of 4 3 alkyl ureido 1 3 fluorophenyl 1H pyrrole 3 carboxylic acid ethyl esters

To 3 amino 1 aryl 1H pyrrole 2 4 dicarboxylic acid 2 tert butyl ester 4 ethyl ester 0.82 0.86 mmol 1.0 eq. was added TFA 2.4 3.0 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 3 hours and was then evaporated to dryness. To the resultant residue was added dry THF under nitrogen followed by dropwise addition of alkyl isocyanate 2.0 eq. . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 16 hours and then evaporated to dryness. The resulatant residue was dissolved in DCM and then filtered through a flash NHcartridge eluting further with MeOH. The combined organic washings were then loaded onto H MN and concentrated in vacuo and purified by flash chromatography silica 40 120 g column ISCO 0 50 EtOAc in DCM or 0 30 EtOAc in pentane or by silica 10 50 g Si SPE column Isolute 50 DCM in pentane DCM then 20 MeOH in DCM to afford the title compound.

Following general method 4 employing 3 amino 1 3 fluorophenyl 1H pyrrole 2 4 dicarboxylic acid 2 tert butyl ester 4 ethyl ester and methyl isocyanate afforded the title compound as a white solid 194 mg 74 LCMS method B R 3.38 min M H 306 H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 8.42 s 1H 7.64 d J 2.7 Hz 1H 7.46 d J 2.7 Hz 1H 7.39 dt J 8.2 6.2 Hz 1H 7.24 7.20 m 1H 7.15 dt J 9.9 2.3 Hz 1H 6.99 tdd J 8.3 2.4 0.9 Hz 1H 4.71 4.65 m 1H 4.31 q J 7.1 Hz 2H 2.90 d J 4.9 Hz 3H 1.37 t J 7.1 Hz 3H .

Following general method 4 employing 3 amino 1 3 fluorophenyl 1H pyrrole 2 4 dicarboxylic acid 2 tert butyl ester 4 ethyl ester and ethyl isocyanate afforded the title compound as a cream solid 0.192 g 73 LCMS method B R 3.61 min M H 320 H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 8.41 s 1H 7.62 d J 2.7 Hz 1H 7.44 d J 2.7 Hz 1H 7.38 dt J 8.2 6.2 Hz 1H 7.21 dd J 8.2 2.4 Hz 1H 7.14 dt J 9.9 2.4 Hz 1H 6.98 td J 8.2 2.4 Hz 1H 4.73 s 1H 4.31 q J 7.1 Hz 2H 3.35 3.26 m 2H 1.37 t J 7.1 Hz 3H 1.21 t J 7.1 Hz 3H .

Following general method 4 employing 3 amino 1 3 fluorophenyl 1H pyrrole 2 4 dicarboxylic acid 2 tert butyl ester 4 ethyl ester and isopropyl isocyanate afforded the title compound as an off white solid 0.150 g 55 LCMS method B R 3.77 min M H 334 H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 8.35 s 1H 7.62 d J 2.7 Hz 1H 7.45 d J 2.7 Hz 1H 7.38 dt J 8.2 6.2 Hz 1H 7.22 ddd J 8.2 2.3 0.9 Hz 1H 7.15 dt J 9.9 2.3 Hz 1H 6.98 tdd J 8.2 2.3 0.9 Hz 1H 4.52 br. s 1H 4.31 q J 7.1 Hz 2H 3.94 br. s 1H 1.37 t J 7.1 Hz 3H 1.22 d J 6.5 Hz 6H .

Following general method 4 employing 3 amino 1 4 chloro 3 fluoro phenyl 1H pyrrole 2 4 dicarboxylic acid 2 tert butyl ester 4 ethyl ester and ethyl isocyanate afforded the title compound as a yellow solid 0.65 g 76 LCMS method B R 3.87 min M H 354 H NMR DMSO D 400 MHz 8.27 s 1H 7.91 d J 2.7 Hz 1H 7.86 dd J 10.9 2.6 Hz 1H 7.68 7.63 m 2H 7.54 7.50 m 1H 7.23 t J 5.3 Hz 1H 4.28 q J 7.1 Hz 2H 3.13 3.05 m 2H 1.31 t J 7.1 Hz 3H 1.05 t J 7.2 Hz 3H .

General Method 5 Preparation of S 3 1 3 aryl 4 ureido 1H pyrrole 3 carbonyl amino piperidine 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl esters

To a solution of S 3 amino 1 Boc piperidine 0.8 1.5 eq. in THF under nitrogen was added 2N trimethylaluminium in hexanes 2.0 3.3 eq. and the reaction mixture was allowed to stir at room temperature for 0.25 2 hours. After this time a THF solution of 1 aryl 4 ureido 1H pyrrole 3 carboxylic acid ethyl ester 0.59 3.26 mmol 1.0 eq. was added and the reaction mixture was heated at 65 70 C. for a period of 3.5 24 hours. After this time the reaction mixture was allowed to cool and was then quenched by addition of a saturated solution of Rochelle s salt. After 0.25 0.5 hours the mixture was extracted with EtOAc or DCM and the organic layer was washed with water brine dried and concentrated. The resultant residue was then purified by flash chromatography silica 12 120 g column ISCO 0 100 EtOAc in DCM to afford the title compound.

Following general method 5 employing 1 3 fluorophenyl 4 ureido 1H pyrrole 3 carboxylic acid ethyl ester afforded the title compound as an orange solid 0.51 g 35 LCMS method B R 3.38 min M H 446 H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 9.15 s 1H 7.61 d J 2.5 Hz 1H 7.35 dt J 8.2 6.2 Hz 1H 7.25 br. s 1H 7.15 ddd J 8.2 2.2 0.9 Hz 1H 7.07 dt J 9.9 2.2 Hz 1H 6.95 tdd J 8.2 2.5 0.9 Hz 1H 6.36 br. s 1H 4.92 s 2H 4.02 m 1H 3.62 dd J 13.3 3.5 Hz 1H 3.49 3.33 m 3H 1.93 1.52 m 4H 1.46 s 9H .

Following general method 5 employing 1 4 trifluoromethylphenyl 4 ureido 1H pyrrole 3 carboxylic acid ethyl ester afforded the title compound as an off white solid 0.08 g 40 LCMS method B R 3.65 min M H 496 H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 9.15 s 1H 7.70 7.64 m 3H 7.48 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.29 7.25 m 1H 4.74 s 2H 4.09 4.02 m 1H 3.58 3.49 m 3H 3.38 3.26 m 1H 1.89 1.82 m 2H 1.79 1.66 m 1H 1.64 1.52 m 1H 1.47 s 9H .

Following general method 5 employing 1 4 cyanophenyl 4 ureido 1H pyrrole 3 carboxylic acid ethyl ester afforded the title compound as an off white solid 0.105 g 23 LCMS method B R 3.16 min M H 453 H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 9.17 s 1H 7.73 7.63 m 3H 7.44 d J 8.3 Hz 2H 7.34 7.30 m 1H 6.47 br. s 1H 4.97 s 2H 4.09 3.96 m 1H 3.51 3.32 m 3H 1.95 1.64 m 3H 1.64 1.50 m 1H 1.46 s 9H .

Following general method 5 employing 1 4 chloro 3 fluorophenyl 4 ureido 1H pyrrole 3 carboxylic acid ethyl ester afforded the title compound as a pale yellow glass 212 mg 25 LCMS method B R 3.57 min M H 480 H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 9.15 s 1H 7.55 d J 2.5 Hz 1H 7.39 t J 8.3 Hz 1H 7.34 7.22 m 1H 7.15 dd J 9.9 2.6 Hz 1H 7.11 7.05 m 1H 6.50 br. s 1H 5.07 s 2H 4.07 3.94 m 1H 3.72 3.58 m 1H 3.48 3.27 m 3H 1.95 1.82 m 1H 1.81 1.63 m 2H 1.62 1.50 s 1H 1.46 s 9H .

Following general method 5 employing 1 3 fluoro 4 trifluoromethylphenyl 4 ureido 1H pyrrole 3 carboxylic acid ethyl ester afforded the title compound as a pale yellow glass 117 mg 13 LCMS method B R 3.67 min M H 514 H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 9.16 s 1H 7.67 7.55 m 2H 7.40 7.30 m 1H 7.27 7.14 m 2H 6.53 s 1H 5.03 s 2H 4.08 3.96 m 1H 3.70 3.57 m 1H 3.49 3.32 m 3H 1.92 1.64 m 3H 1.63 1.52 m 1H 1.47 s 9H .

Following general method 5 employing 1 3 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenyl 4 ureido 1H pyrrole 3 carboxylic acid ethyl ester afforded the title compound as a off white solid 220 mg 31 LCMS method B R 3.80 min M H 530.

Following general method 5 employing 1 3 fluorophenyl 4 3 methyl ureido 1H pyrrole 3 carboxylic acid ethyl ester afforded the title compound as a glass 171 mg 27 LCMS method B R 3.54 min M H 460 H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 8.42 s 1H 7.64 d J 2.7 Hz 1H 7.46 d J 2.7 Hz 1H 7.39 dt J 8.2 6.2 Hz 1H 7.24 7.20 m 1H 7.15 dt J 9.9 2.3 Hz 1H 6.99 tdd J 8.3 2.4 0.9 Hz 1H 4.71 4.65 m 1H 4.31 q J 7.1 Hz 2H 2.90 d J 4.9 Hz 3H 1.37 t J 7.1 Hz 3H .

Following general method 5 employing 4 3 ethyl ureido 1 3 fluorophenyl 1H pyrrole 3 carboxylic acid ethyl ester afforded the title compound as an off white glass 257 mg 46 LCMS method B R 3.69 min M H 474 H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 9.03 s 1H 7.65 d J 2.4 Hz 1H 7.36 dt J 8.2 6.2 Hz 1H 7.21 7.15 m 2H 7.11 dt J 9.9 2.4 Hz 1H 6.97 ddt J 8.2 2.4 0.7 Hz 1H 4.55 m 1H 4.07 m 1H 3.65 3.41 m 3H 3.36 3.26 m 2H 1.94 1.80 m 2H 1.77 1.65 m 2H 1.47 s 9H 1.19 t 3H .

Following general method 5 employing 1 3 fluorophenyl 4 3 isopropyl ureido 1H pyrrole 3 carboxylic acid ethyl ester afforded the title compound as a yellow solid 78 mg 59 LCMS method B R 3.88 min M H 488 H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 8.99 s 1H 7.64 s 1H 7.37 q J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.21 7.15 m 2H 7.11 dd J 10.0 2.4 Hz 1H 6.96 t J 8.4 Hz 1H 6.20 br. s 1H 4.46 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 4.07 m 1H 3.94 m 1H 3.65 3.43 m 3H 3.32 s 1H 1.93 1.80 m 2H 1.73 m 1H 1.58 m 1H 1.47 s 9H 1.21 d J 6.5 Hz 6H .

Following general method 5 employing 1 4 chloro 3 fluoro phenyl 4 3 ethyl ureido 1H pyrrole 3 carboxylic acid ethyl ester afforded the title compound as a yellow foam 220 mg 42 LCMS method B R 3.94 min M H 508.

General Method 6 Preparation of S 3 1 3 fluorophenyl 4 3 substituted ureido 1H pyrrole 3 carbonyl amino piperidine 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl esters with conventional heating

To a solution of S 3 1 3 fluorophenyl 4 ureido 1H pyrrole 3 carbonyl amino piperidine 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester 90 100 mg 0.20 0.23 mmol 1.0 eq. and amine 1.0 eq. in toluene under nitrogen was added acetic acid 0.8 eq. and the reaction mixture was heated at 110 C. for 24 72 hours. After this time the reaction mixture was allowed to cool and was partitioned between DCM and water. The DCM layer was passed through a hydrophobic frit and was then evaporated to yield the title compound as a crude residue.

General Method 7 Preparation of S 3 1 3 fluorophenyl 4 3 substituted ureido 1H pyrrole 3 carbonyl amino piperidine 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl esters with microwave irradiation.

To a solution of S 3 1 3 fluorophenyl 4 ureido 1H pyrrole 3 carbonyl amino piperidine 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester 75 100 mg 0.17 0.23 mmol 1.0 eq. and amine 1.5 eq. in toluene under nitrogen was added acetic acid 0.8 eq. and the reaction mixture was heated under microwave irradiation at 150 C. for 1 hour. The reaction mixture was allowed to cool and was partitioned between DCM and water. The DCM layer was passed through a hydrophobic fit and was then evaporated to yield the title compound as a crude residue.

Following general method 6 employing S 3 1 3 fluorophenyl 4 ureido 1H pyrrole 3 carbonyl amino piperidine 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester and cyclopropanemethylamine afforded the crude title compound as an orange foam 114 mg LCMS method B R 3.94 min M H 500. This crude material was used in the next step without further purification.

Following general method 6 employing S 3 1 3 fluorophenyl 4 ureido 1H pyrrole 3 carbonyl amino piperidine 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester and 2 methoxyethylamine afforded the crude title compound as an orange foam 109 mg LCMS method B R 3.69 min M H 504. This crude material was used in the next step without further purification.

Following general method 7 employing S 3 1 3 fluorophenyl 4 ureido 1H pyrrole 3 carbonyl amino piperidine 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester and cyclopropylamine afforded the crude desired product. Column chromatography silica 12 g column ISCO 0 50 ethyl acetate in DCM afforded the title compound as a glass 64 mg 78 LCMS method B R 3.70 min M H 486.

Following general method 6 employing S 3 1 3 fluorophenyl 4 ureido 1H pyrrole 3 carbonyl amino piperidine 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester and 2 amino ethanol afforded the crude desired product. Column chromatography silica 12 g column ISCO 0 100 ethyl acetate in DCM afforded the title compound as a glass 60 mg 55 LCMS method B R 3.25 min M H 490.

Following general method 6 employing S 3 1 3 fluorophenyl 4 ureido 1H pyrrole 3 carbonyl amino piperidine 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester and propylamine afforded the crude desired product. Column chromatography silica 12 g column ISCO 0 50 ethyl acetate in DCM afforded the title compound as glass 100 mg 65 LCMS method B R 3.89 min M H 488.

Following general method 6 employing S 3 1 3 fluorophenyl 4 ureido 1H pyrrole 3 carbonyl amino piperidine 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester and 3 amino propan 1 ol afforded the crude desired product. Column chromatography silica 12 g column ISCO 0 100 ethyl acetate in DCM afforded the title compound as a glass 70 mg 60 LCMS method B R 3.37 min M H 504.

Following general method 6 employing S 3 1 3 fluorophenyl 4 ureido 1H pyrrole 3 carbonyl amino piperidine 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester and 3 methoxy propylamine afforded the crude desired product. Column chromatography silica 12 g column ISCO 0 60 ethyl acetate in DCM afforded the title compound as a glass 100 mg 71 . LCMS method B R 3.67 min M H 518.

Following general method 7 employing S 3 1 3 fluorophenyl 4 ureido 1H pyrrole 3 carbonyl amino piperidine 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester and 2 fluoroethylamine hydrochloride afforded the crude desired product Note 0.34 mmol of anhydrous sodium acetate was added to the reaction mixture to neutralise the amine . Column chromatography silica 12 g column ISCO 0 100 ethyl acetate in DCM afforded the title compound as a glass 80 mg 95 . LCMS method B R 3.68 min M H 492.

Following general method 7 employing S 3 1 3 fluorophenyl 4 ureido 1H pyrrole 3 carbonyl amino piperidine 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester and 2 2 difluoroethylamine afforded the crude desired product. Column chromatography silica 12 g column ISCO 0 50 ethyl acetate in DCM afforded the title compound as a glass 100 mg 57 . LCMS method B R 3.81 min M H 510.

Following general method 7 employing S 3 1 3 fluorophenyl 4 ureido 1H pyrrole 3 carbonyl amino piperidine 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester and 2 2 2 trifluoroethylamine afforded the crude desired product. Column chromatography silica 12 g column ISCO 0 100 ethyl acetate in DCM afforded the title compound as a glass 70 mg 39 . LCMS method B R 4.00 min M H 528.

To the S 3 1 3 aryl 4 ureido 1H pyrrole 3 carbonyl amino piperidine 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester 0.07 1.14 mmol 1.0 eq. was added TFA 0.2 3.4 mL 40 eq. . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 3 hours and was then evaporated to dryness. The resultant crude residue was purified using one of the following methods to afford the title compound.

A The crude residue was loaded onto H MN and was then purified by flash chromatography silica 12 40 g column ISCO 0 30 MeOH in DCM 

C Loaded onto an Isolute SCX 2 cartridge with MeOH washing the cartridge with MeOH before eluting the desired product with 2N ammonia in MeOH.

D Dissolved in DCM and filtered through a 5 g Isolute flash NH2 cartridge washing the cartridge with 10 MeOH in DCM then 20 MeOH in DCM then with MeOH concentrating the filtrate in vacuo and subjecting the residue to purification by flash chromatography silica 12 40 g column ISCO 0 30 MeOH in DCM .

Following general method 8 employing S 3 1 3 fluorophenyl 4 ureido 1H pyrrole 3 carbonyl amino piperidine 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester and purification method B afforded the title compound as a cream solid 237 mg 60 LCMS method A R 5.18 min M H 346 H NMR CDOD 300 MHz 7.80 d J 2.6 Hz 1H 7.53 7.44 m 2H 7.33 7.24 m 2H 7.04 m 1H 3.98 m 1H 3.16 m 1H 2.93 m 1H 2.59 2.49 m 2H 1.98 m 1H 1.79 m 1H 1.61 1.51 m 2H .

Following general method 8 employing S 3 1 4 trifluoromethylphenyl 4 ureido 1H pyrrole 3 carbonyl amino piperidine 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester and purification method A afforded the title compound as an off white solid 70 mg 100 LCMS method A R 6.09 min M H 396 H NMR DMSO D 300 MHz 8.86 s 1H 8.71 br. s 2H 8.09 d J 2.7 Hz 1H 8.03 d J 7.30 Hz 1H 7.87 d J 8.6 Hz 2H 7.72 d J 8.5 Hz 2H 7.66 d J 2.6 Hz 1H 6.35 br. s 2H 4.14 4.07 m 1H 3.43 3.31 m 1H 3.28 3.18 m 1H 2.94 2.75 m 2H 1.99 1.88 m 2H 1.77 1.64 m 1H 1.63 1.51 m 1H .

Following general method 8 employing S 3 1 4 cyanophenyl 4 ureido 1H pyrrole 3 carbonyl amino piperidine 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester and purification method A afforded the title compound as an off white solid 66 mg 67 LCMS method A R 4.96 min M H 353 H NMR DMSO D 300 MHz 8.86 s 1H 8.66 s 2H 8.11 d J 2.6 Hz 1H 8.04 d J 7.3 Hz 1H 8.01 7.94 m 2H 7.71 7.64 m 3H 6.39 br. s 2H 4.17 4.02 m 1H 3.27 3.13 m 2H 2.84 2.74 m 2H 2.02 1.84 m 2H 1.79 1.48 m 2H .

Following general method 8 employing S 3 1 4 chloro 3 fluorophenyl 4 ureido 1H pyrrole 3 carbonyl amino piperidine 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester and purification method A afforded the title compound as a white solid 146 mg 68 LCMS method A R 5.88 min M H 380 H NMR DMSO D 300 MHz 8.84 s 1H 8.78 s 2H 8.01 d J 3.7 Hz 2H 7.74 7.61 m 2H 7.59 d J 2.6 Hz 1H 7.40 dd J 8.8 2.5 Hz 1H 6.36 br. s 2H 4.18 4.03 m 1H 3.29 3.12 m 2H 2.92 2.75 m 2H 1.97 1.88 m 2H 1.79 1.48 m 2H .

Following general method 8 employing S 3 1 3 fluoro 4 trifluoromethylphenyl 4 ureido 1H pyrrole 3 carbonyl amino piperidine 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester and purification method A afforded the title compound as a white solid 120 mg 100 LCMS method A R 6.36 min M H 414 H NMR DMSO D 300 MHz 8.85 s 1H 8.79 s 2H 8.13 d J 2.6 Hz 1H 8.08 d J 7.3 Hz 1H 7.90 t J 8.4 Hz 1H 7.79 7.71 m 1H 7.69 d J 2.6 Hz 1H 7.58 7.51 m 1H 6.40 br. s 2H 4.18 4.03 m 1H 3.28 3.15 m 2H 2.98 2.70 m 2H 2.02 1.87 m 2H 1.79 1.47 m 2H .

Following general method 8 employing S 3 1 3 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl 4 ureido 1H pyrrole 3 carbonyl amino piperidine 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester and purification method A afforded the title compound as an off white solid 115 mg 51 LCMS method A R 6.61 min M H 430 H NMR DMSO D 300 MHz 8.88 s 1H 8.14 d J 2.7 Hz 1H 8.03 d J 7.4 Hz 1H 7.96 d J 8.8 Hz 1H 7.89 d J 2.1 Hz 1H 7.70 7.65 m 2H 6.40 br. s 2H 4.16 4.00 m 1H 3.22 3.13 m 2H 2.89 2.68 m 2H 2.00 1.83 m 2H 1.75 1.47 m 2H .

Following general method 8 employing S 3 1 3 fluorophenyl 4 3 methyl ureido 1H pyrrole 3 carbonyl amino piperidine 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester and purification method D and then E afforded the title compound as a white solid 105 mg 79 LCMS method A R 5.10 min M H 360 H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 9.15 s 1H 7.63 d J 2.5 Hz 1H 7.42 7.31 m 2H 7.23 7.09 m 2H 6.95 td J 8.3 2.4 Hz 1H 6.74 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 4.92 4.82 m 1H 4.20 4.09 m 1H 3.06 dd J 12.0 3.2 Hz 1H 2.91 2.74 m 6H 1.85 1.67 m 3H 1.65 1.50 m 1H .

Following general method 8 employing S 3 4 3 ethyl ureido 1 3 fluorophenyl 1H pyrrole 3 carbonyl amino piperidine 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester and purification method D and then E afforded the title compound as a white solid 144 mg 71 LCMS method A R 5.85 min M H 374 H NMR CDOD 300 MHz 7.78 d J 2.1 Hz 1H 7.54 7.46 m 2H 7.34 7.24 m 2H 7.07 7.05 m 1H 4.21 m 1H 3.52 m 1H 3.35 m 1H 3.22 q J 7.2 Hz 2H 3.09 2.84 m 2H 2.16 1.98 m 2H 1.94 1.62 m 2H 1.17 t J 7.2 Hz 3H .

Following general method 8 S 3 1 3 fluorophenyl 4 3 isopropyl ureido 1H pyrrole 3 carbonyl amino piperidine 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester and purification method A afforded the title compound as a cream solid 80 mg 100 LCMS method A R 6.17 min M H 388 H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 9.51 9.22 m 2H 9.09 m 1H 7.80 m 1H 7.67 s 1H 7.49 d J 2.4 Hz 1H 7.34 m 1H 7.20 7.04 m 2H 6.95 td J 8.3 2.4 Hz 1H 4.47 m 1H 3.83 m 1H 3.35 3.09 m 3H 2.98 m 1H 2.13 m 1H 1.98 1.74 m 3H 1.22 d J 6.3 Hz 6H .

Following general method 8 employing S 3 4 3 cyclopropylmethyl ureido 1 3 fluorophenyl 1H pyrrole 3 carbonyl amino piperidine 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester and purification method B afforded the title compound as a white solid 40 mg 50 over 2 steps LCMS method A R 6.43 min M H 400 H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 9.07 s 1H 7.60 s 1H 7.49 s 1H 7.35 7.26 m 1H 7.15 d J 8.7 Hz 2H 6.90 t J 8.3 Hz 1H 5.32 s 1H 4.88 4.24 br. s 1H 4.24 4.09 m 1H 3.09 2.97 m 3H 2.96 2.66 m 3H 1.91 1.49 m 4H 1.04 0.90 m 1H 0.51 0.39 m 2H 0.22 0.11 m 2H .

Following general method 8 employing S 3 1 3 fluorophenyl 4 3 2 methoxy ethyl ureido 1H pyrrole 3 carbonyl amino piperidine 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester and purification method B afforded the title compound as a white solid 38 mg 47 over 2 steps LCMS method A R 5.83 min M H 404 H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 9.13 s 1H 7.60 d J 2.5 Hz 1H 7.46 d J 2.5 Hz 1H 7.38 7.24 m 1H 7.19 7.14 m 1H 7.14 7.08 m 1H 6.97 6.89 m 2H 5.45 s 1H 4.21 4.07 m 1H 3.58 3.40 m 4H 3.35 s 3H 3.12 3.00 m 1H 2.88 2.76 m 3H 1.87 1.69 m 3H 1.63 1.50 m 1H .

Following general method 8 employing S 3 4 3 cyclopropyl ureido 1 3 fluorophenyl 1H pyrrole 3 carbonyl amino piperidine 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester 94 mg 0.19 mmol and purification methods D and then E afforded the title compound as a white solid 19 mg 26 LCMS method A R 5.83 min M H 386 H NMR CDOD 300 MHz 7.83 d J 2.6 Hz 1H 7.56 d J 2.6 Hz 1H 7.52 7.43 m 1H 7.34 7.29 m 1H 7.28 dt J 10.2 2.3 Hz 1H 7.07 7.01 m 1H 4.02 3.93 m 1H 3.14 dd J 12.2 3.9 Hz 1H 2.92 dt J 12.7 3.7 Hz 1H 2.62 2.49 m 3H 2.04 1.96 m 1H 1.83 1.73 m 1H 1.67 1.51 m 2H 0.83 d J 6.7 Hz 2H 0.63 0.54 m 2H .

Following general method 8 employing S 3 1 3 fluorophenyl 4 3 2 hydroxyethyl ureido 1H pyrrole 3 carbonyl amino piperidine 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester 60 mg 0.12 mmol and purification method A afforded the title compound as a white solid 23 mg 48 LCMS method A R 2.12 min M H 390 H NMR CDOD 400 MHz 7.81 7.79 m 1H 7.54 7.42 m 1H 7.32 7.29 m 1H 7.26 dt J 10.2 2.3 Hz 1H 7.04 tdd J 8.3 2.4 0.8 Hz 1H 4.24 tt J 10.2 3.9 Hz 1H 3.64 t J 5.7 Hz 2H 3.51 dd J 12.3 4.0 Hz 1H 3.32 3.29 m 3H 3.03 2.90 m 2H 2.11 2.03 m 2H 1.92 1.78 m 1H 1.77 1.66 m 1H .

Following general method 8 employing S 3 1 3 fluorophenyl 4 3 propylureido 1H pyrrole 3 carbonyl amino piperidine 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester 100 mg 0.20 mmol and purification method A afforded the title compound as a white solid 60 mg 76 LCMS method A R 2.31 min M H 388 H NMR CDOD 400 MHz 7.80 t J 2.9 Hz 1H 7.51 7.42 m 2H 7.31 7.22 m 2H 7.03 tdd J 8.3 2.4 0.8 Hz 1H 4.29 4.20 m 1H 3.55 3.49 m 1H 3.33 3.30 m 1H 3.16 t J 7.0 Hz 2H 3.05 2.93 m 2H 2.12 2.04 m 2H 1.93 1.79 m 1H 1.79 1.67 m 1H 1.62 1.51 m 2H 0.97 t J 7.4 Hz 3H .

Following general method 8 employing S 3 1 3 fluorophenyl 4 3 3 hydroxypropyl ureido 1H pyrrole 3 carbonyl amino piperidine 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester 70 mg 0.14 mmol and purification method A afforded the title compound as a white solid 18 mg 32 LCMS method A R 2.11 min M H 404 H NMR CDOD 400 MHz 7.80 7.79 m 1H 7.53 d J 2.5 Hz 1H 7.48 td J 8.2 6.2 Hz 1H 7.32 7.29 m 1H 7.26 dt J 10.2 2.3 Hz 1H 7.04 tdd J 8.3 2.4 0.8 Hz 1H 4.24 tt J 10.2 3.9 Hz 1H 3.64 t J 6.3 Hz 2H 3.51 dd J 12.3 4.0 Hz 1H 3.32 3.29 m 2H 3.31 3.26 m 2H 3.08 2.89 m 2H 2.11 2.02 m 2H 1.93 1.79 m 1H 1.76 t J 6.5 Hz 2H .

Following general method 8 employing S 3 1 3 fluorophenyl 4 3 3 methoxypropyl ureido 1H pyrrole 3 carbonyl amino piperidine 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester 100 mg 0.19 mmol and purification method A afforded the title compound as a white solid 75 mg 92 LCMS method A R 2.21 min M H 418 H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 9.52 s 1H 9.21 s 1H 8.97 s 1H 7.61 7.54 m 2H 7.34 td J 8.2 6.2 Hz 1H 7.23 7.16 m 1H 7.14 dt J 9.9 2.3 Hz 1H 6.94 td J 8.2 2.4 Hz 1H 5.80 s 1H 4.43 s 1H 3.45 t J 6.0 Hz 2H 3.38 3.30 m 3H 3.29 s 3H 3.02 t J 10.6 Hz 1H 2.90 q J 10.5 Hz 1H 2.30 2.12 m 3H 1.97 1.82 m 1H 1.85 1.75 m 3H .

Following general method 8 employing S 3 1 3 fluorophenyl 4 3 2 fluoroethyl ureido 1H pyrrole 3 carbonyl amino piperidine 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester 80 mg 0.16 mmol and purification method A afforded the title compound as a white solid 45 mg 70 LCMS method A R 2.20 min M H 392 H NMR CDOD 300 MHz 7.78 s 1H 7.56 7.46 m 2H 7.35 7.26 m 2H 7.06 tdd J 8.3 2.4 0.9 Hz 1H 4.49 4.38 m 2H 4.28 4.18 m 1H 3.56 3.49 m 2H 3.46 t J 5.0 Hz 1H 3.37 3.31 m 1H 3.04 2.88 m 2H 2.13 2.04 m 2H 1.91 1.78 m 1H 1.77 1.66 m 1H .

Following general method 8 employing S 3 1 3 fluorophenyl 4 3 2 2 difluoroethyl ureido 1H pyrrole 3 carbonyl amino piperidine 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester 100 mg 0.20 mmol and purification method A afforded the title compound as a white solid 55 mg 68 LCMS method A R 2.24 min M H 410 H NMR DMSO d 400 MHz 9.04 s 1H 8.72 s 2H 8.03 7.96 m 2H 7.71 t J 5.9 Hz 1H 7.61 d J 2.5 Hz 1H 7.59 7.51 m 1H 7.43 7.35 m 2H 7.15 td J 8.4 2.4 Hz 1H 6.02 tt J 56.0 3.8 Hz 1H 4.15 4.06 m 1H 3.54 3.41 m 2H 3.38 3.29 m 1H 3.28 3.17 m 1H 2.98 2.70 m 2H 1.99 1.89 m 2H 1.76 1.63 m 1H 1.64 1.54 m 1H .

Following general method 8 employing S 3 1 3 fluorophenyl 4 3 2 2 2 trifluoroethyl ureido 1H pyrrole 3 carbonyl amino piperidine 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester 70 mg 0.13 mmol and purification method A afforded the title compound as a white solid 25 mg 44 LCMS method A R 2.37 min M H 428 H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.13 s 1H 8.71 s 2H 8.04 7.97 m 3H 7.62 d J 2.5 Hz 1H 7.59 7.51 m 1H 7.44 7.36 m 2H 7.16 td J 8.4 2.4 Hz 1H 4.16 4.06 m 1H 3.96 3.84 m 2H 3.38 3.29 m 1H 3.23 d J 12.2 Hz 1H 2.94 2.74 m 2H 1.97 1.88 m 2H 1.75 1.66 m 1H 1.62 1.54 m 1H .

Following general method 8 employing S 3 4 3 ethyl ureido 1 4 chloro 3 fluorophenyl 1H pyrrole 3 carbonyl amino piperidine 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester and purification method D afforded the title compound as a white solid 70 mg 40 LCMS method A R 6.49 min M H 408 H NMR DMSO D 400 MHz 8.96 s 1H 8.04 d J 2.6 Hz 1H 7.74 7.62 m 3H 7.58 d J 2.6 Hz 1H 7.41 7.37 m 1H 7.15 t J 5.5 Hz 1H 3.85 3.74 m Hi 3.12 2.98 m 3H 2.83 dt J 12.1 3.3 Hz 1H 2.48 2.44 m 1H 2.40 dd J 11.9 9.5 Hz 1H 1.90 1.83 m 1H 1.72 1.64 m 1H 1.48 1.38 m 2H 1.03 t J 7.2 Hz 3H .

To a solution of S 1 methyl piperidin 3 yl amine 120 mg 1.05 mmol in THF 8.0 mL under nitrogen was added 2N trimethylaluminium in hexanes 1.0 mL 2.0 mmol and the reaction mixture was allowed to stir at room temperature for 1.5 hours. After this time a THF 5.0 mL solution of 1 3 fluorophenyl 4 ureido 1H pyrrole 3 carboxylic acid ethyl ester 291 mg 1.0 mmol was added and the reaction mixture was heated at 65 70 C. for a period of 18 hours. After this time the reaction mixture was allowed to cool to room temperature and was then quenched by addition of a saturated solution of Rochelle s salt. After 0.5 hours the mixture was extracted with DCM 3 10 mL and EtOAc 1 10 mL . The combined organic layer was dried MgSO and concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was then purified by flash chromatography silica 5 g column Isolute 0 20 MeOH in DCM to afford the title compound 60 mg 0.17 mmol 17 . LCMS method A R 5.13 min M H 360 H NMR DMSO D 400 MHz 8.97 s 1H 8.05 d J 2.6 Hz 1H 7.68 d J 7.8 Hz 1H 7.56 d J 2.6 Hz 1H 7.55 7.48 m 1H 7.39 dt J 10.6 2.3 Hz 1H 7.36 7.33 m 1H 7.12 td J 8.5 2.4 Hz 1H 6.29 s 2H 3.95 3.88 m 1H 2.85 2.77 m 1H 2.65 2.57 m 1H 2.18 s 3H 1.92 1.73 m 3H 1.74 1.67 m 1H 1.58 1.46 m 1H 1.33 1.19 m 1H .

