---

title: Regenerable solid imine sorbents
abstract: Two new classes of amine-based sorbents are disclosed. The first class comprises new polymer-immobilized tertiary amine sorbents; the second class new polymer-bound amine sorbents. Both classes are tailored to facilitate removal of acid anhydrides, especially carbon dioxide (CO), from effluent gases. The amines adsorb acid anhydrides in a 1:1 molar ratio. Both classes of amine sorbents adsorb in the temperature range from about 20° C. upwards to 90° C. and can be regenerated by heating upwards to 100° C.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08530375&OS=08530375&RS=08530375
owner: University of Pittsburgh—Of the Commonwealth System of Higher Education
number: 08530375
owner_city: Pittsburgh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090828
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. Ser. No. 11 506 120 filed Aug. 18 2006 now abandoned.

This invention was made with government support pursuant to the employer employee relationship between the Government and the inventors as U.S. Department of Energy employees at the National Energy Technology Laboratory. The government has certain rights in this invention.

This invention relates to sorbents for the removal of acid anhydrides from effluent gases and more specifically this invention relates to two classes of amine based sorbents polymer immobilized tertiary amines and polymer bound tertiary amines which can serve as sorbents for the removal of carbon dioxide and other acid anhydrides from any effluent stream.

Carbon dioxide is considered to be the major greenhouse gas due to its effect on the earth s ozone layer. It has been estimated that 36 of the United States anthropogenic COis produced from coal fired power plants. Consequently the capture and sequestration of COfrom flue gas streams is an essential step for carbon management in our environment.

New research efforts for the capture and sequestration of carbon dioxide CO from flue gas streams are being proposed and will have a direct or indirect impact on the types of systems ultimately designed and implemented. Currently techniques for the capture and separation of COemploy solvents cryogenic techniques membranes and solid sorbents. Large scale operation of these technologies is energy intensive when applied to capturing COin dilute streams such as flue gas. For example coal combustion gases comprise approximately 15 mol CO.

Carbon dioxide is removed from natural gas streams via stripping into aqueous amine solutions. A significant improvement over the past 30 years has been the introduction of sterically hindered amines which allow for a 1 1 molar adsorption ratio of COto amine rather than the 1 2 ratio found in typical primary and secondary amines. The most serious drawbacks to aqueous amine processes are corrosion of process vessels degradation of amine during thermal cycling and the large energy requirements owing to water s high heat capacity.

Amine based wet scrubbing systems have also been proposed as capture techniques for COremoval from flue gas streams. However these systems are very energy intensive due to the large amount of water needed and the need to recover the amines via evaporation of the water. Large amounts of water are required because of the mechanism corrosiveness and air flow problems created by the use of monoethanolamine MEA diethanolamine DEA or methyldiethanolamine MDEA . Also these amines are volatile and losses can occur due to evaporation. Thus these amines lack thermal stability.

Presently immobilized primary and secondary amine sorbents are utilized in aircraft submarine and spacecraft technologies. The immobilization of these amines on supports via evaporation of the amines into the supports pores increases their thermal stability and thus reduces evaporation losses. Nevertheless the cost of these sorbents is too high for large scale applications in utility industries such as electrical generation in part because these sorbents adsorb acid anhydrides at a 2 1 molar ratio of amine to anhydride. Also these sorbents operate only at 25 C. and are thus limited for other applications.

Some work has been done in attempting to improve upon current sorbents limitations by the preparation of less costly immobilized secondary amine sorbents as reported in M. L. Gray Y. Soong K. J. Champagne H. Pennline J. P. Baltrus R. W. Stevens Jr. R. Khatri S. S. C. Chuang and T. Filburn Improved Immobilized Carbon Dioxide Capture Sorbents 86 14 1449 1455 2005 . While the sorbents seemed to have a stronger adsorption capability for CO their loading capacity decreased with each adsorption regeneration cycle.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 908 497 awarded to Sirwardane on Jun. 21 2005 discloses carbon dioxide specific sorbents fabricated by placing amines and or ethers between the unit layers of an inert substrate s lattice.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 582 498 awarded to Sass et al. on Jun. 24 2003 discloses a method of separating carbon dioxide from a gas using a fluid dynamic instability. The method includes the use of a tertiary amine methyldiethanolamine MDEA .

U.S. Pat. No. 6 547 854 awarded to Gray et al. on Apr. 15 2003 discloses carbon dioxide specific sorbents fabricated by chemically bonding amines to inert substrates.

U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 364 938 5 876 488 and 5 492 683 awarded to Birbara et al. on Apr. 2 2002 Mar. 2 1999 and Feb. 20 1996 respectively disclose carbon dioxide specific sorbents fabricated by chemically bonding amines to inert and polymeric substrates.

None of the aforementioned patents discloses a flue gas stream sorbent which can adsorb COat a 1 1 molar ratio of amine to CO.

None of the aforementioned patents and articles discloses an immobilized tertiary amine based sorbent which can adsorb carbon dioxide at temperatures in excess of 25 C.

None of the aforementioned patents and articles discloses a chemically bound tertiary amine based sorbent which can adsorb carbon dioxide at temperatures in excess of 25 C.

In addition none of the aforementioned patents disclose a flue gas stream sorbent for acid anhydrides which can be used in a system open to the environment.

A need exists in the art for sorbents which can adsorb COat higher COto sorbent molar ratios. A need also exists in the art for acid anhydride sorbents with greater thermal stability that can thus adsorb COat temperatures significantly above 25 C. Finally a need exists in the art for acid anhydride sorbents which can be used in open systems.

It is an object of the present invention to provide sorbents for acid anhydrides in flue gases that overcomes many of the disadvantages of the prior art.

Another object of the present invention is to provide an amine based acid anhydride sorbent with a greater temperature range for acid anhydride adsorption. A feature of the invention is that the sorbents have greater thermal stability. An advantage of the invention is greater cost effectiveness.

Still another object of the present invention is to provide an amine based sorbent which retains its amines at higher temperatures. A feature of this invention is that in one invented class of amines the polymer immobilized amines the amines have high boiling points or are solids. Another feature is that in the other class of amine sorbents the polymer bound sorbents the amine is chemically bound to the support material. An advantage of these two features is that the sorbents can be used with little or no evaporation loss of the amine. This results in lower costs.

Yet another object of the present invention is to provide an amine based sorbent which adsorbs acid anhydrides in a 1 1 molar ratio of amine to acid anhydride. A feature of the invention is that tertiary amines are utilized in both classes of amine based sorbents. An advantage of this feature is that a bicarbonate is formed. Another advantage is that less amine is needed to adsorb the acid anhydrides. This also results in lower costs.

Still another object of the present invention is to provide an amine based sorbent which can be employed in environmentally open systems. A feature of this invention is that both polymer immobilized amine sorbents and polymer bound sorbents retain their amines after exposure to anhydride. An advantage of this feature is a broader applicability of the sorbents and simpler systems for containment of the sorbents resulting in lower costs.

Briefly the invention provides polymer immobilized tertiary amine based sorbents for the adsorption of acid anhydrides in effluent gas streams.

The invention also provides polymer bound tertiary amine based sorbents for the adsorption of acid anhydrides in effluent gas streams.

The inventors have found two new classes of new amine based sorbents for the removal of acid anhydrides from effluent gases. Target acid anhydrides but are not limited to CO SO and NO.

One class of sorbents has tertiary amines immobilized in the pores of polymer substrate supports wherein the support material to amine molar ratio is 5 1. This first class is depicted in . The second class of sorbents is defined as amines chemically bonded to the surface of polymeric substrates and thus are amine functional polymeric sorbents. A depiction of this second class of sorbents is .

A salient feature of the invention is that both classes of sorbents adsorb acid anhydrides in a 1 1 molar ratio. A second salient feature is that both classes of sorbents can adsorb acid anhydrides at temperatures above 25 C. and at least as high as 85 C.

The amines for the invented immobilized amine based sorbents include but are not limited to 1 8 Diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undec 7 ene DBU 1 3 4 6 7 8 Hexahydro 2H pyrimido 1 2 a pyrimidine TBD and N 2 Hydroxyethyl piperazine. As depicted in these amines designated as element are contained on a support material via evaporation of the amines into the support materials pores. The amines do not chemically react with the support material but are enclosed by the support material. The support material is a polymeric material selected from a group consisting of polyethers polystyrenes siloxanes and polyacrylates or combinations thereof. The support material can be a copolymer e.g. styrene and chloromethyl styrene. The immobilized amines can be evenly and consistently deposited upon a support material. The molar ratio of amine in the sorbents to support material is 1 5 or about 16.7 wt. amine.

Since DBU and other tertiary amine based sorbents have the stoichiometric capability of capturing COat a 1 1 molar ratio and have greater thermal stability due to higher melting and boiling points the cost and efficiency of these tertiary amine sorbents can offer considerable improvements and make them feasible for use in large scale CO generating operations. A typical flue gas stream from a power plant consists of 10 15 CO 10 15 water 20 50 ppm SO 10 20 ppm NOand air. These amines can be immobilized in the pores of polymeric supports or even chemically bound directly to the polymers the later depicted in .

These tertiary amine systems can also be used for the removal of other acid anhydrides such as SOand NOfrom effluent gas streams. This has been shown with acyclic amines in A. Diaf and E. J. Beckman Thermally Reversible Polymeric Sorbents for Acid Gases IV. Affinity Tuning for the Selective Dry Sorption of NO25 1 89 96 1995 .

For this invention two commercially available polymers have been used to fabricate the polymer immobilized amine based sorbents. These are Dialon HP2MG a polymethylmethylacrylate PMMA Mitsubishi Chemicals Chesapeake Va. and Macronet MN 200 polystyrene Purolite Bala Cynwyd Pa. . Generally the resultant surface areas e.g. the Brunauer Emmett and Teller surface area or BET surface area of the invented amine sorbents are between approximately 100 meters squared per gram m g and 350 m g. Untreated polymeric supports have BET surface areas of from about 500 m g to 600 m g.

Untreated polymeric supports have typical particle sizes with diameters ranging from about 125 mesh to 130 mesh. For Macronet MN 200 the pore volume is about 1.0 mL g and a particle size of 16 mesh to 50 mesh or between 0.3 millimeter mm and 1.2 mm. For Dialon HP2MG PMMA the pore volume is 1.2 milliliters per gram mL g and the average pore radius is 170 and the particle size 250 microns m . Table 1 infra has surface areas and pore volumes for three polymer immobilized amine based sorbents using PMMA.

An increased DBU to PMMA ratio in a polymer immobilized DBU based sorbent results in increasingly smaller surface areas and pore volumes and increasingly larger COloading capability. A suitable DBU PMMA ratio is selected from between 2.5 1 and 5 1.

The temperature range is suitable even for the immobilized amine based sorbents inasmuch the amines used therein have high melting and boiling points e.g. N 2 hydroxyethyl piperazine b. p. 240 C. DBU b. p. 115 C. 80 C. to 83 C. at 0.6 mm Hg and a flash point of 110 C. and TBD m. p. 125 C. 130 C. These moieties have very low vapor pressures under normal barometric conditions. Other tertiary amines such as the imines amidines and guanidines typically have high molecular weights and hydrogen bonding which in turn yield high boiling points and concomitant low vapor pressures. This minimizes vaporization of amines from the immobilized amine based sorbents as discussed infra and as demonstrated in Table 2 infra via X ray photoelectron spectroscopy XPS analyses.

As for the polymer bound sorbents the amine is directly chemically bonded to a polymeric support substrate. The amine is selected from the group consisting of acyclic imines cyclic imines acyclic amidines cyclic amidines acyclic guanidines and cyclic guanidines.

Imines amidines and guanidines can serve well as tertiary amine sorbents with a high molar adsorption ratio 1 1 as does DBU for CO. The structures given in for imines amidines and guanidines are general with R therein being alkyl aryl alkyloxy and or acryloxy moieties. Imines are analogues of aldehydes or ketones having NR doubly bonded to carbon. Amidines are derivatives of carboxylic acids in which the hydroxyl functionality is replaced by an amino functionality and the oxo functionality is replaced by NR. Guanidines share a common functionality with the general structure RRN RRN C N R. The parent moiety itself has the formula C NH wherein a Lewis structure provides a carbon to nitrogen double bond C N .

The sorbents can be formed into a solid phase selected from the group consisting of extrudates films powders pellets or monoliths to accommodate various reactor configurations.

The polymer bound amine based sorbents can be used in the pressure range from of about 5 Torr to 5 atmospheres atm .

Surprisingly and unexpectedly inventors have also found that these sorbents are readily regenerable over a number of cycles by heating upwards to 100 C.

Immobilization of DBU and TBD in preexisting polymer substrates occurs VIA evaporation into substantive pores. Use of these sterically hindered amines gives a 1 1 molar ratio of amine to carbon dioxide making these cost effective. The following reactant volumes and experimental parameters are for illustrative purposes only and are empirically determined. As such such exact values should not be construed as limiting the inventions.

Suitable portions e.g. 75 grams g of Macronet MN 200 polystyrene beads Purolite were combined with a 1 1 liquid solution of DBU and methanol 30 g 15 g or 7.5 g of each Sorbents 8 through 13 in Table 2 infra and placed into a 1 liter pear shaped round bottom flask. An additional 150 milliliters mL of methanol were added to the polystyrene DBU methanol slurry followed by rotation for 15 minutes min in a rotatory evaporator apparatus. The slurry was heated up to 90 C. and a vacuum pressure of from about 10 mm Hg to 300 mm Hg was applied to remove the excess methanol. The polystyrene DBU solid amine sorbent was cooled to room temperature at atmospheric pressure.

This preparation was carried out as given in U.S. Pat. No. 5 876 488 supra which is hereby incorporated by reference.

DBU and TBD reacts with monomers to form DBU functional polymers. Representative polymers include but are not limited to polystyrene methylsiloxane polyether alkyl halide acrylate silicone and combinations thereof.

223 mg of 6 Vinyl DBU and 29 mg 0.0145 mmol polyhydromethylsiloxane were dissolved in 30 mL THF and stirred overnight. Upon concentrating the mixture a solid waxy material was obtained. The product was washed several times with both THF and methanol to give poly 6 ethyl DBU methylsiloxane. The product was dried under vacuum at a yield of 247 mg or 98 mol .

1.25 g of poly 6 ethyl DBU methylsiloxane supra were placed in a beaker and exposed to COat one atmosphere atm at room temperature. After 10 to 15 minutes of exposure to CO the resultant product was weighed showing a new mass of 1.51 g or a 98 mol yield of a 1 1 COto DBU adduct. This product was used in thermogravimetric analysis TGA to confirm the amine to CO1 1 molar ratio infra. This method was also utilized for preparation of polystyrene supported DBU CO.

DBU Aldrich is dissolved in dry THF and the temperature lowered to 78 C. using a dry ice acetone bath. At that point an equimolar amount of BuLi 1M in THF is added to the DBU solution and stirred for 30 min at 78 C. Subsequently a solution of polyepichlorohydrin co ethylene oxide Aldrich in THF is added equimolar concentrations of DBU and epichlorohydrin and the solution stirred for 30 minutes at 78 C. The cold bath is then removed and the solution allowed to come to room temperature while maintaining stirring. The THF is removed under vacuum and the product redissolved in water. The resultant polymer is separated from the lithium chloride LiCl byproduct by dialysis and subsequently recovered by removal of the water under vacuum. This process can be used with any variety of epichlorohydrin homopolymer or copolymer with other alkylene oxides.

DBU Aldrich is dissolved in dry THF and the temperature lowered to 78 C. using a dry ice acetone bath. An equimolar amount of BuLi 1M in THF is added to the DBU solution and stirred at 78 C. for 30 minutes. Subsequently a solution of an alkyl bromide e.g. dodecyl bromide equimolar with the DBU is added and the mixture stirred at 78 C. for another 30 minutes. The cold bath is removed and the solution allowed to come to room temperature while stirring. The THF is removed under vacuum and the product redissolved in hexane. The resulting slurry is centrifuged and the supernatant removed by decantation and filtered. The hexane is removed leaving the product.

A DBU THF and BuLi solution is prepared as done supra with the solution stirred for 30 minutes after the addition of the BuLi. Subsequently dimethyl t butyl silyl 2 bromoethyl ether is added equimolar amount . The mixture is stirred for 30 minutes the cold bath removed and the mixture warmed to room temperature. The silyl group is then cleaved using tetrabutyl ammonium fluoride and the product purified using column chromatography thus generating hydroxylethyl DBU. This moiety is subsequently reacted with acryloyl chloride at 0 C. with excess triethyl amine generating the DBU functional acrylate.

A DBU THF and BuLi solution is treated as before. Subsequently an equimolar amount to DBU of allyl chloride is added and the mixture stirred for 30 minutes. The cold bath is removed and the mixture allowed to warm to room temperature. The THF and residual allyl chloride are removed under vacuum. The lithium chloride LiCl is removed in a subsequent step. Polyhydromethyl siloxane Gelest is dissolved in THF and an equimolar amount of the allyl DBU is added. Finally a catalytic amount of chloroplatinic acid is added and the mixture heated to reflux for 12 hrs. Upon completion of the reaction as shown by the disappearance of the Si H peak in either the IR or NMR spectrum the mixture is cooled and the catalyst residue is removed by filtration. The polymer is precipitated into a non solvent water or methanol to remove unreacted DBU and dried under vacuum.

Initially poly 1 carboxy 6 ethyl DBU methylsiloxane as prepared supra was analyzed via TGA. A rapid drop in weight due to desorption of carbon dioxide of approximately 17.5 17.24 theoretical occurred at 50 C. and is displayed in . This demonstrates a 1 1 COto DBU molar binding ratio. Similar results were obtained with DBU appended to a copolymer of styrene and chloromethyl styrene.

COcapture capacities of the invented sorbents were determined by the combination of Temperature Programmed Desorption TPD and Mass Spectrometry MS analyses. An Ominostar mass spectrometer Pfeiffer Vacuum Nashua N.H. was used for all MS analyses. Typically the tubular reactor was charged with a 1 g sample of the sorbent and the sample pretreated with a 2 water helium gas stream at a flow rate of 180 mL min to 200 mL min. The temperature was maintained at 25 C. under atmospheric pressure during this pretreatment period. This pretreatment period provides a means for creating an homogenous atmosphere with moisture present at a concentration necessary to facilitate the reaction of carbon dioxide with amine. In one embodiment a moisture content of about 2 percent suffices. Baseline conditions are also established during the pretreatment period.

After 30 minutes the reactor was by passed and the reaction gas of 10 carbon dioxide 2 water helium He was directed to the mass spectrometer to form the baseline carbon dioxide concentration required for these tests. The gas flow was maintained at 160 mL min to 170 mL min over the capture temperature range of 25 C. to 85 C. at atmospheric pressure for the adsorption of carbon dioxide. The gas stream was subsequently switched to the reactor and the amount of carbon dioxide captured by the sorbent was tracked by the mass spectrometer .

After approximately 35 minutes the gas stream was switched back to the pretreatment conditions He 2 HO at 180 ml min to 200 mL min and the reactor temperature was increased to 90 C. to start the desorption stage for the sorbent. After approximately 1.0 hr the reactor was cooled back to 25 C. completing the adsorption desorption test. The breakthrough curves were generated by a excel spreadsheet and the areas of the adsorption curves were calculated by a linear integration method.

The percent nitrogen N1s Peak attributable to the amine on the surface of the aminated sorbent was determined by XPS analysis. X ray photoelectron spectroscopy XPS measurements were carried out with a PHI 5600ci ESCA instrument Physical Electronics USA Chanhassen Minn. using monochromatic Al K x rays. The pass energy of the analyzer was 58.7 electron volts eV for high resolution scans. Relative elemental concentrations on the surface of the sorbents were calculated by measuring peak areas in the high resolution spectra and then converting to atomic concentrations using instrument manufacturer provided sensitivity factors. The relative elemental concentration for N is given in Table 2 infra as XPS N1s.

Under these conditions the levels of N contained in the chemically attached amines can be determined for each of the COcapture sorbents. XPS analyses carried out before and after use of an amine based sorbent reveal the extent of retention of the amine especially for the immobilized amine based sorbents wherein the amines are contained within the pores of the polymeric support material and therefore below the surface of the polymer. The XPS N1s values thus measure the thermal stability of the immobilized amine based sorbents.

For example sorbent 15 g of DBU in 75 g of PMMA has an XPS N1S value of 0.9 before any usage. After four cycles of adsorption desorption at 25 C. one cycle of adsorption desorption at 45 C. and one adsorption desorption cycle at 65 C. the XPS N1s value is 1.0. Over the course of six cycles including two at elevated temperatures the DBU remained within the pores of the PMMA demonstrating the thermal stability of this sorbent. In general this is true for all of the XPS N1s sets of values shown infra.

The thermal stability of the immobilized amine base sorbents is due in large part to the amines high boiling points as discussed supra.

Table 2 displays masses temperatures XPS and COadsorption data for 13 different amine based sorbents. Sorbents through and through are polymer immobilized and sorbents through are polymer bound. For some of the polymer immobilized sorbents the mass ratios of polymer to amine are given. The XPS values give a relative measure of the nitrogen content of the sorbents. Each XPS entry was obtained before the sorption data in the same row. The mols of COadsorbed per Kg of sorbent are given for previously unused sorbent and sorbent which has been regenerated by heating to 90 C.

According to Table 2 the new immobilized and chemically bound amine based sorbents have COcapture capacities of 2.9 to 5.7 mol of COper kilogram of sorbent and are thermally stable over as many as six test runs. The XPS N1s values indicate that the losses of nitrogen are minimal. Since the XPS N1s values are very similar before and after regeneration cycles the amine functionality was not lost during the course of these tests.

These regenerable solid amine sorbents can capture carbon dioxide in a temperature range from of about 20 C. to 85 C. The capture of carbon dioxide at these elevated temperatures can create potential applications in flue gas stream clean up since the exit temperature of Selective Catalytic Reduction SCR and Wet Flue Gas Desulfurization FGD scrubbing systems is in the range of from about 50 C. to 70 C.

In summary the invented sorbents adsorb acid anhydrides at a molar ratio of 1 1 amine to anhydride . The sorbents are thermally stable little or no loss of amine from 20 C. upwards of 100 C.

One class of sorbents employs tertiary amines which are immobilized polymer immobilized via evaporation into the pores of polymeric substrates. The second class of sorbents employs tertiary amines imines amidines and guanidines which are chemically bonded polymer bound to polymeric substrates.

Both classes of sorbents can be used at temperatures well in excess of 25 C. The sorbents are readily regenerable by heating to release COand other acidanhydrides such as SOand NO.

While the invention has been described with reference to details of the illustrated embodiments these details are not intended to limit the scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims.

