---

title: Lateral displacement and rotational displacement sensor
abstract: A position measuring sensor formed from opposing sets of capacitor plates measures both rotational displacement and lateral displacement from the changes in capacitances as overlapping areas of capacitors change. Capacitances are measured by a measuring circuit. The measured capacitances are provided to a calculating circuit that performs calculations to obtain angular and lateral displacement from the capacitances measured by the measuring circuit.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08704536&OS=08704536&RS=08704536
owner: The Regents of the University of California
number: 08704536
owner_city: Oakland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090728
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Patent Application No. 61 086 061 entitled Capacitance Displacement and Rotation Sensor filed on Aug. 4 2008 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety and for all purposes.

This invention was made in the course of or under prime contract No. DE AC02 05CH11231 between the U.S. Department of Energy and the University of California. The Government has certain rights to this invention.

This invention relates to sensors for determining the position of an object in particular determining the object s lateral displacement and rotational orientation using capacitance.

Positional sensors have various applications in today s world. In some applications a very accurate measurement of position is needed over a limited range. One example of such an application is in manipulation of a stage of a high resolution microscope such as an electron microscope. Electron microscopes include Scanning Electron Microscopes SEMs Transmission Electron Microscopes TEMs Scanning Transmission Electron Microscopes STEMs and various kinds of Reflection and Emission Electron Microscopes like the Low Energy Electron Microscope LEEM and Photoemission electron Microscope PEEM . Such microscopes have much higher resolution than optical microscopes and therefore require manipulation of a stage with very high precision. The location of the specimen stage is generally measured as it is moved so that when a feature is found its location may be recorded and the microscope may return to the feature if desired. In addition to measuring the location of the stage the angle of tilt of the stage with respect to the electron beam illumination has to be measured to align the objective lens properly. Thus the position of the stage may include location in three translational and two angular degrees of freedom of the stage.

Optical encoders may be used to measure the position of an electron microscope stage. Even though modern optical encoders overcome the light wavelength limit by interpolation and can measure down to a few nm displacement the direct measurement of displacement is only possible within the periodicity of the ruler used typically a few um. When the displacement is larger a counter for the traversed ruler periods is necessary. The counter can get out of synchronization with the ruler which usually means that the experiment has to be terminated and a run to a special reference mark has to be made. Other mechanisms may be used to measure position. However the environment of an electron microscope presents problems for many techniques. In particular techniques based on magnetic fields e.g. a linear differential transformer may be susceptible to interference from stray magnetic fields created by an electron microscope or may influence the performance of the microscope by its own stray field.

A position measuring sensor formed from opposing sets of capacitor plates measures both rotational displacement and lateral displacement from the changes in capacitances as overlapping areas of the capacitors change. In one example two moving capacitor plates are provided that can be excited together or individually and four stationary capacitor plates are provided so that their capacitive coupling to the two excited capacitor plates can be measured. Both sets of plates have rotational symmetry in this example. Capacitances are measured by a measuring circuit. The measured capacitances are provided to a calculating circuit that performs calculations to obtain angular and lateral displacement from the capacitances measured by the measuring circuit. Such a position measuring sensor may be used in a stage assembly or aperture assembly of an electron microscope.

An electron microscope stage assembly according to an embodiment includes a plurality of moving capacitor plates attached to a moving portion of the stage assembly a plurality of stationary capacitor plates attached to a stationary portion of the stage assembly a measuring circuit that individually measures capacitances between the plurality of moving capacitor plates and the plurality of stationary capacitor plates and a calculating circuit that receives the measured capacitances from the measuring circuit and calculates displacement of the moving portion relative to the stationary portion.

A position sensing system according to an embodiment includes a first capacitor plate and a second capacitor plate disposed symmetrically about a first axis the first and second capacitor plates attached to a first body four or more opposing capacitor plates opposed to the first and second capacitor plates the four or more capacitor plates disposed symmetrically about a second axis the four or more capacitor plates attached to a second body a measuring circuit that measures capacitances between the first capacitor plate and individual ones of the four or more capacitor plates and measures capacitances between the second capacitor plate and individual ones of the four or more capacitor plates and a calculating circuit that calculates relative linear displacement and angular displacement of the first body relative to the second body from the measured capacitances.

A method of obtaining linear and angular displacement of a first object relative to a second object according to an embodiment includes providing first and second plates that are rigidly attached to the first object the first and second plates disposed symmetrically about a first axis providing four or more opposing plates that are rigidly attached to the second object the four or more opposing plates disposed symmetrically about a second axis measuring capacitances between the first plate and individual ones of the opposing plates and between the second plate and individual ones of the opposing plates and from the measured capacitances deriving linear displacement of the first axis from the second axis and angular displacement of the first object about the first axis.

It is generally important to be able to measure the position of the sample so that locations of objects of interest can be recorded and a user can return to view such features after moving to another area. Also the angle of tilt of the stage angle between the electron beam and the sample is important and has to be routinely adjusted when the objective lens is aligned. In particular where the sample has a crystalline structure the orientation of a crystal axis with respect to the electron beam may be critical to obtain a good result. shows a more detailed view of stage assembly . Stage assembly contains actuators to move stage and also contains a displacement sensor to measure both lateral and rotational angular displacement of the stage with respect to some stationary portions of the stage assembly. shows X Y and Z axes indicating possible lateral displacement of stage . Rotational displacement of stage may also occur about X and Z axes as shown. Examples of stage assemblies are described in more detail in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 861 721 filed Sep. 26 2007 entitled Manipulator for rotating and translating a sample holder and in U.S. Pat. No. 6 388 262.

Aperture assembly may have a similar structure to stage assembly and contains an aperture drive or aperture manipulator to move aperture . Knowing the exact position of aperture may be critical. Such apertures there may be multiple apertures along an electron beam in an electron microscope may be changed regularly depending on the present use or optimization of the electron beam. If the positions of such apertures are known precisely the apertures can be returned to a prior position with little or no need for further adjustment or alignment. A similar apparatus may be used for sensing position of a stage in a stage assembly or an aperture in an aperture assembly of an electron microscope.

According to an embodiment of the present invention a position sensor uses capacitance to measure position. In particular lateral displacement and rotational displacement may be measured by a single sensor that includes multiple capacitors that vary in capacitance as the stage is moved.

A capacitor is formed by two opposing plates or electrodes that are separated by a dielectric which may be an air gap or vacuum . The capacitance of a capacitor is related to the area of the plates the distance between them and the dielectric between the plates. The relationship is given by the well known equation 

It should be noted that some sensors use a change in distance between capacitor plates as an indicator of pressure or other environmental factors. Such sensors are different in operation because of the limited range of variation in such distance and the limitation that the distance between two plates only indicates positional change along one direction and is not easily incorporated into a sensor that measures positional change in more than one direction. In the following examples the distance between capacitor plates remains constant and only the coupling area is varied. Environmental factors acting on the dielectric like e.g. humidity of the atmospheric air are excluded by the vacuum of the electron microscope.

In an electron microscope stage assembly the stage itself which holds the sample being examined and some portions connected to the stage are generally movable with respect to the remainder of the stage assembly which may be considered stationary or static . The stationary portions may be bolted or otherwise rigidly attached to a frame or base that does not move when the electron microscope is in use. Actuators such as electric motors connect the movable portions to the stationary portions and effect movement of the stage. In examples described here movable capacitor plates are coupled to a movable portion of the stage assembly while stationary or fixed capacitor plates are coupled to a stationary portion of the stage assembly. The capacitors thus formed by opposing plates are variable capacitors that vary as the movable portion moves with respect to the stationary portion. By choosing plates of suitable geometry both lateral movement and rotational movement may be measured. An aperture assembly may be similarly formed of movable and stationary portions with capacitor plates attached to each to form variable capacitors.

According to an embodiment a sensor is formed by opposing sets of capacitor plates each set centered about a different axis. show two views top view and three dimensional view respectively of a first set of capacitor plates. The first set of capacitor plates consists of two capacitor plates E and E each defined by an equal sized sector of a circle centered on a first axis . Capacitor plates E E are symmetric about first axis . In this example capacitor plates E E each extend over a little less than 180 degrees with a small gap between them. In other examples capacitor plates may extend over some other angular range. In other examples the projected gap between the plates may be zero when the plates are stacked into different planes.

There is a central opening about the axis so that capacitor plates E E do not occupy their entire sectors in this example. The size of the central opening if any is not critical. Capacitor plates E E may be formed on a surface of an object or otherwise rigidly attached to an object. In this example capacitor plates E E are attached to a moving portion of the sensor which in turn is rigidly connected to a moving portion of the electron microscope assembly. Thus capacitor plates E E may be considered to be moving capacitor plates.

In addition to the three modes of operation shown in which excite both capacitor plates together only capacitor plate E and only capacitor plate E respectively additional modes may excite the two plates in opposition. For example if capacitor plate E is excited in phase with capacitor plate E excited in antiphase the following capacitances may be measured 

To determine the lateral and rotational displacement of the moving capacitor plates E E with respect to the stationary capacitor plates D D the above described capacitances may be used in a number of different ways. It can be seen that as capacitor plates E E move with respect to capacitor plates D D the capacitances of the capacitors formed change in a manner that is dependent upon both lateral displacement and rotational displacement. In some cases separate estimates of displacement may be obtained from different capacitances and averaged or otherwise combined to provide a more accurate result. Thus while particular techniques of calculating rotational displacement and lateral displacement are described here the present invention is not limited by such examples.

Averaging and calculating the angular parameter as described above reduces crosstalk between position variations and angular readout. The exact value depends on the diameters and radii used. The residual nonlinearities can be resolved by for example using a lookup table in software for post detection compensation.

The formulae and processing power needed to evaluate angular displacement can be modified to make use of antiphase excitation by making maximum use of a differential acquisition mode of an electronic system thereby eliminating common mode disturbances that affect all input parameters as thermal drift either electronic or mechanical.

In one example factors A and A are calculated from the values of and obtained by measurement and are used as quadrature signals. Here A and A 90 . shows plotted values for A and A as functions of angular displacement. One possible routine for providing an output that represents angular displacement is as follows 

In addition to measuring angular displacement as described above a capacitive sensor may be used to measure lateral displacement. Thus the same sensor provides information regarding both angular displacement and lateral displacement providing a simple space efficient and cost effective way to determine the position of an object.

In an example opposing sets of capacitor plates are formed as a stack of alternating fins that provide a large surface area to couple capacitor plates and provide a high tolerance to misalignment of parts. Such a stack may look the same as in end view view along axis of rotation but is different in cross section. shows a cross sectional view of a capacitive sensor according to such an embodiment. In particular shows two excited capacitor plates E and E which are coupled to detecting capacitor plates D and D. Here unlike prior examples capacitor plates are defined by cylinders instead of being defined by circles. Thus capacitor plates E and E are defined by one cylinder while capacitor plates D and D are defined by a larger cylinder so that plates E and E have some room to move within plates D and D. It will be understood that D and D are just two of four stationary capacitor plates in the present example with the other two stationary capacitor plates not visible in this view. Each of the four stationary capacitor plates occupies sectors of the cylinder defining the stationary capacitor plates. The gaps and between an individual fin of capacitor plate E and adjacent fins of capacitor plate D are shown in . If there is some misalignment that causes gap to be reduced to less than its designed value this is compensated for by a corresponding increase in gap thus maintaining the total capacitance between E and D at its designed value thereby providing a high tolerance for misalignment between moving and stationary capacitor plates. It should be noted that while the above examples show an axis of rotation that is vertical when used in an electron microscope the axis of rotation for which angular displacement is measured may not be vertical. In one application the angular displacement that is measured is the angle of tilt of an electron microscope stage with respect to an electron beam. Such an angle of tilt is an angle about a horizontal axis.

A sensor according to the above examples may be used to map features on a particular sample creating a zero point and allowing position tagging of features with respect to the zero point. For example the zero point may be a location where the capacitances are balanced i.e. C C and C C in the above examples . Any position of interest may be tagged so that the capacitance values when the microscope is centered on that position are recorded. This allows the microscope to return to the position at a later time. In this way a series of features may be position tagged over a relatively large area and subsequently the microscope may return to any of these features rapidly so that further investigation may be performed. Position tagging may record not only the location of the feature on the sample but also record a particular angular displacement that provides a good viewing angle. This may be particularly important for crystalline structures.

While examples of the present invention described above relate to specific applications in electron microscopes the present invention has many other applications and is not limited to electron microscopes. For example a sensor according to an embodiment of the present invention may be used to provide accurate position information regarding a photonic crystal used in a holographic data storage device. Another application is in precision machine tools for example tools that use lasers for laser ablation where the laser or a stage may be moved with high precision and may benefit from accurate position measurement. Another application is in Hard Disk Drives HDDs where the position of read write heads may be measured with high precision. Aspects of the present invention may find various applications in optical systems. For example sensing the positions of elements such as lenses or the sample in an optical confocal microscope or in a laser deflection strain measurement system. Other optical applications include position sensing in a fiber optical switch or a fiber coupler. While these are examples of applications of the present invention this is not an exhaustive list and other applications are also within the scope of the present invention.

All patents patent applications articles books specifications other publications documents and things referenced herein are hereby incorporated herein by this reference in their entirety for all purposes. To the extent of any inconsistency or conflict in the definition or use of a term between any of the incorporated publications documents or things and the text of the present document the definition or use of the term in the present document shall prevail.

Although the various aspects of the present invention have been described with respect to certain preferred embodiments it is understood that the invention is entitled to protection within the full scope of the appended claims.

