---

title: Dial up telephone conferencing system controlled by an online computer network
abstract: In a telephone conferencing system, a digital communication network such as the Internet is used to establish and control the telephone connections between multiple conferees with the telephone network being the means of exchanging verbal information. Each conferee may have a computer connected to the digital network, and each has an independent telephone instrument connected to the public switched telephone network. An in-charge conferee utilizes his computer containing appropriate software to initiate the conference and to control the participation of the conferees. The in-charge conferee sends digital control signals to a switch interface controlling a telephone switch as a gateway to the telephone network using SS7 control signals. These SS7 control signals include the commands by which the conferee telephones are rung up, brought on line, or dropped from the conference. The switch provides telephone status information back over the digital network, and the in-charge conferee, as well as other conferees provided with appropriate software, display this status information on their PC monitors.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08077844&OS=08077844&RS=08077844
owner: Xugave Holding DE LLC
number: 08077844
owner_city: Dover
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090324
---
This application is a continuation of application Ser. No. 10 705 571 filed Nov. 10 2003 and now U.S. Pat. No. 7 522 542 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety and was a continuation of application Ser. No. 10 087 671 filed Mar. 1 2002 and now U.S. Pat. No. 6 661 779 which was a continuation of application Ser. No. 09 819 079 filed Apr. 30 2001 and now U.S. Pat. No. 6 480 474 which was a continuation of application Ser. No. 09 587 080 filed Jun. 3 2000 and now U.S. Pat. No. 6 266 328 which was a continuation in part of application Ser. No. 09 212 786 filed Dec. 16 1998 and now U.S. Pat. No. 6 072 780 which was a continuation in part of application Ser. No. 08 918 564 filed Aug. 22 1997 now abandoned which claimed the benefit of priority pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 119 of Provisional Application 60 024 592 filed Aug. 26 1996.

This invention relates to telephone conferencing and in particular to dial up telephone conferencing utilizing computer control.

In the art it is known that telephone conferences may be implemented through conferencing centers provided as a service by local and long distance telephone companies. A list of telephone numbers of the conferees and the date and time at which the conference is to begin is supplied to a conference center operator who performs the dialing operations to bring the conferees simultaneously on line to initiate the conference. This technique is limited by the necessity of setting up a relatively inflexible forum in which all participants must be designated in advance and the inclusion and reliance upon outside telephone company personnel to implement the conference.

A more recent form of conferencing utilizes digital networks such as the Internet that are publicly accessible by individual computers typically PCs via Internet Relay Chat IRC hosts. The conferees come on line and are interconnected by means of the host and may utilize software which allows fully duplexed communication between the PCs. Typically the conference is conducted with the exchanged information visually appearing on the individual PC display screens. In more sophisticated applications allowing audio communication between the conferees additional hardware is required at each PC site. A microphone and analog to digital converter provide digitized audio input to a PC by means of appropriate software such as commercially available VocalTec software and the audio output is derived from the digital information transmitted over the Internet by use of a digital to analog converter feeding a speaker. Encryption software may be employed to scramble the digital information transmitted via the network but all potential conferees must be provided with this software and must be alerted to the fact that it is being used. Hence a conference of multiple conferees requires additional hardware and software at each PC site in order to implement a conference by means of the Internet.

Referring to a conferee station consists of a PC computer and a telephone . Conferee stations correspondingly have PC computers and telephones . Other conferee stations i.e. may still be connected into the conference network without the requirement of a computer the conferee station comprising only the telephone . All the PCs are connected to the Internet network using standard Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP connect software. The telephones are tied into the telephone network in a conventional manner. It will be noted that the telephones are independent of the Internet network . A switch interface controlling a telephone switch is also connected so as to receive control signals via the Internet and to transmit them to the telephone network as will be described below.

Any one of the conferee stations possessing a PC may be designated as Conference Meister. For convenience of explanation it is assumed that conferee station is designated as Conference Meister. To implement this designation PC of conferee station is provided with additional software which allows PC to communicate with the switch interface both to control the telephone switch and to receive status information from the telephone switch via the Internet .

The Conference Meister station and the switch interface communicate over the TCP IP transport layer of the Internet using the Internet s User Datagram Protocol UDP with checksum. A common fixed length interprocess message called the Conference Protocol Data Unit CDPU using the software format further described below in Table I is exchanged between the Conference Meister and the switch interface in the data field of a UDP Datagram. The switch interface converts the CDPU into Signalling System 7 SS7 commands which act on the switch and attendantly on the telephone network to control the conferees telephones . SS7 is an internationally recognized telephony standard of 255 commands for controlling telephone calls via switch using standard lookup table procedures. The switch interface interacting with the switch may be implemented incorporating a standard micro computer such as a Motorola 68705P5 performing the table lookup translation of SS7 commands into CPDU commands stored in its ROM memory. It will be noted that the switch interface is bidirectional and telephone connection status information as established by the switch i.e. ringing off hook on hook busy for all participants is transmitted back via the Internet to the Conference Meister for icon display on his PC.

The Session ID and Conference ID fields contain administrative housekeeping information. The Command Response Code field indicates the message type and the message meaning. Parameters of the Data Field are fixed length subfields and depend upon the message type. Detailed descriptions of the Command Response Code field are shown below in Table I.

In the above description of the invention the Conference Meister initiates the conference. By providing CDPU software to the other conferees the invention allows any other one of the conferee stations i.e. to serve as a Conference Meister.

The functional interrelation of the elements of the system illustrated in may be further understood by reference to . In the abbreviations used industry wide have the following meanings SSP Central Office i.e. Service Signalling Point SCP Service Control Point it is an alternate SS7 entry point and STP Signal Transfer Point. In the drawings different but related elements are identified with the same reference characters albeit that corresponding elements in the various drawings are distinguished by primes. The components of the telephone system are expanded in the box showing one or more interconnected telephone central offices e.g. that also contain control elements of the SS7 system e.g. . As one example of the interaction between the telephone system and the control disclosed in the present invention a call placed by telephone using conventional dialing enters the system through telephone central office . The call is internally routed if necessary by the SS7 control system over the telephone network to a telephone central office which is connected to a telephone system Internet interface and that sends SS7 signals to an Internet computer that a telephone call is in process and destined to the Internet . The dashed lines of denote digital control functions while the heavy black lines denote transmitted audio telephone signals as will be described below. As is known in the art within the Internet system are digital computers e.g. acting as routers servers and capable of performing other digital manipulations. Hence via the interface switch control path the telephone central office advises the Internet computer via the SS7 Internet control interface that an audio signal is to be passed to the Internet. The telephone central office transmits the voice signals originating at telephone to the Internet computer where it is digitized if necessary and packetized for transmission on the Internet. This switching and inter node connecting of this entire process has taken place between the telephone system and the Internet under control of SS7 signals. Internet computer converts or maps the SS7 command signals to TCP control signals that route and process the packets through the Internet as disclosed above. The message transits the Internet to its destination say PC of where software decodes the audio message rings the telephone and provides an analog audio signal for telephone corresponding to audio signal generated at telephone instrument .

In a second embodiment of the invention the system of may be further configured to provide an inherent call back capability. Though it uses the same conferencing software described above call back can be between just two parties. Essentially each PC station is set up so it can serve as a conference meister no other special software or hardware need be installed on a station s PC. Only the initiating station requires a PC or other access to the Internet. A suitably programmed touchtone phone can be used to access the Internet without the use of a computer such as the PC. The two party call back feature sets up the call via the Internet with the conversation taking place on the normal telephone system in a manner substantially the same as that described above for conferencing.

Referring to a participating PC call back station shows a display chart on its monitor. The display chart contains the station identification e.g. Richard and a contact list and the PC station s call back telephone number . The contacts are shown with their complete dial up telephone numbers e.g. and by clicking on one or more of the displayed contacts calls are dialed to the selected parties via the Internet and the switch of as previously described for conference calling. It will be appreciated that single parties can be selected to allow two person telephone conversation utilizing the convenience of simplified point and click dialing via the stored telephone numbers shown on the PC monitor screen. In the two party call back connection system described above it is not necessary to have two telephone lines at a PC station i.e. one for connection to the Internet and one for carrying the telephonic conversation. With a single telephone line the system software may be set to instantly disconnect the Internet connection after the called party s number is transmitted by the PC to the switch and to ring the call initiator s telephone simultaneously. In this manner the calling party and the called party are connected by means of a single telephone line in seconds.

Anonymity of the caller is preserved by the invention even when the calling party has automatic numbering identification ANI or Caller ID . Since the system makes all its connections to the called party via the call back technique from the remote switch under control of the conference meister software the only records of all the connected telephone numbers are recorded at the switch including the number of the calling party. This occurs because the caller or conference meister is also one of the call back numbers. Each connection is shown as a separate call on the inter office telephone control SS7 software originating from the switch not from a calling party s telephone. The switch can have an anonymous telephone number assigned as the originating number. Alternately the calling party can designate some other listed number for ANI sending or Caller ID purposes which would key the called party as to who is calling.

With the anonymous option no traceable record of a call is available locally. This minimizes industrial espionage at hotels customer offices and even private homes where merely the fact that certain parties made a call could be valuable information. The proper legal authorities can always get the full records from the central switch if need be to document who initiated the call and which telephones were called.

In a third embodiment the call back system can be expanded to include an advertising feature. Referring to a display is expanded to include an advertising block . Under this embodiment in order to place a call via the call back system or activate a conference the program requires clicking on the advertising block by the caller to create a record that the advertisement was seen by the caller. Various subroutines can then be activated such as requiring additional periodic clicks on the advertisement to keep the call connected or linking the caller to a web page of the advertiser providing additional information as to the users of the system.

It will be noted that the displays are to be implemented in various colors and that the selection by clicking on any portion of the display will be highlighted in a manner known in the computer art.

The invention has been described in detail with particular reference to preferred embodiments thereof but it will be understood that variations and modifications can be effected within the spirit and scope of the invention. For example other data networks such as a private intranet rather than the Internet may be used for digital data communication among the conferee PCs as well as other telephone signaling.

