---

title: Flux control and one-hundred and eighty degree core systems
abstract: 


where p comprises the number of pole pairs, θ comprises a mechanical angle and t comprise time in seconds.

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08319464&OS=08319464&RS=08319464
owner: U.S. Department of Energy
number: 08319464
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090818
---
This application was made with United States government support under Contract No. DE AC05 00OR22725 awarded by the United States Department of Energy. The United States Government has certain rights in these inventions.

This disclosure relates to systems that convert electric energy into mechanical energy or vice versa and more particularly to an arrangement of coils and or magnets that covert electric current into mechanical power or vice versa.

Some motors and generators generate many current components and fluxes including certain third harmonic currents and fluxes e.g. the alternating cycle is three times the fundamentals . Under certain conditions such as when the power density of an electric machine is very high the magnetic saturation in the electric machine may become very high. A third harmonic flux within the air gap of the machine may be a by product of this saturation.

Unfortunately in some electric machines third harmonic currents render zero sequence currents that do not generate torque. Zero sequence third harmonic ampere turns in a three phase machine for example may buck each other in the air gap. The counter balance of such forces may produce no torque since torque is produced by the stator ampere turns interacting with the rotor flux.

A two phase or four phase electric machine includes a first stator part and a second stator part disposed about ninety electrical degrees apart. Stator pole parts are positioned near the first stator part and the second stator part. An injector injects a third harmonic frequency current that is separate from and not produced by the fundamental current driving the first stator part and the second stator part. The electric angular speed of the third harmonic rotating field comprises

A second two phase or four phase electric machine includes a first stator part having a plurality of inner bobbin wound cores and a second stator part having a plurality of outer bobbin wound cores. Each of the outer bobbin wound cores are mechanically biased against at least one of the plurality inner bobbin wound cores. A substantially cylindrical support biases an outer diameter of the outer bobbin wound core against an outer surface of the inner bobbin wound core. A first phase and a second phase of the electric machine enables about a one hundred and eighty electric degree phase span.

Other systems methods features and advantages of the invention will be or will become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following figures and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and advantages be included within this description be within the scope of the invention and be protected by the following claims.

A system may modify the flux that flows through an air gap in two phase or four phase machines. A received or injected third harmonic current may produce a harmonic flux that is synchronous with a fundamental frequency current. As a rotating air gap flux is cut by stator windings an additional third harmonic torque in synchronization with a fundamental frequency torque is produced. A third harmonic current magnitude and phase shift may be adjusted or controlled by controlling the waveform and phase current e.g. total phase current. The additional e.g. third harmonic magnitude torque may be controlled by controlling the third harmonic current magnitude and its phase shift. The system may interface or may be a unitary part of a voltage source inverter fed machine current source inverter fed machine or machines that are not fed by or interface one or more inverters such as a machine connected directly to a utility supply source . Because the power of the third harmonic is normally small when compared to the full rating of a non inverter fed machine such arrangement may benefit from the additional torque without the high cost of some alternatives.

The systems may be part of or interface permanent magnet PM machines e.g. surface mount PM interior PM mounts induction machines motors generators and or PM less synchronous machines such as those described in U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 12 274 895 entitled Permanent Magnet Less Synchronous Reluctance System 12 466 212 entitled Permanent Magnet Less Machine Having an Enclosed Air Gap and 12 466 169 entitled Substantially Parallel Flux Uncluttered Rotor Machines which are incorporated herein by reference. In some two phase or four phase stator winding machines the windings may be distributed substantially or nearly concentric or concentrated or may comprise bobbins or individual wound core windings for example.

In a two phase or a four phase machine stator third harmonic currents may produce an air gap third harmonic rotating ampere turns of the same rotating speed as the rotating field produced by the stator fundamental currents. By changing the shape of the air gap flux the system produces additional torque e.g. a smooth third harmonic torque without the need for additional phases such as a five phase machine that may require additional stator slots additional electronic power switching components or additional connection cables and connectors. The third harmonic rotating ampere turns interact with the rotor harmonic flux to produce the additional torque.

In operation a fundamental frequency current flowing through the system s stator coils or stator parts may produce a fundamental flux distribution and a third harmonic space waveform. While the fundamental flux distribution is useful e.g. in an energy conversion such as an electrical conversion into mechanical energy motor or a mechanical conversion into electrical energy generator the third harmonic space waveform produced from the fundamental current may be of little use. When a third harmonic frequency current that is not the fundamental frequency current is received or injected into the stator windings e.g. it may be synthetically produced by a third harmonic flux or naturally produced due to magnetic saturation a third harmonic fundamental current and a third harmonic frequency component is generated. The third harmonic frequency current will be in synchronization or substantially in sync with the fundamental frequency current. The shape of the winding back electromotive force emf may be modified by injecting the third 3 harmonic currents into two or four phase stator windings. When the rotating air gap flux cuts the stator winding conductors the voltage of the back emf is produced.

In a two phase or a four phase machine stator third harmonic currents may produce an air gap third harmonic rotating ampere turns of the same rotating speed as the rotating field produced by the stator fundamental currents. By changing the shape of the air gap flux the shape of the induced electromotive force EMF in the stator winding may become more trapezoidal consequently the peak voltage of this trapezoidal waveform contains a higher fundamental peak voltage than the trapezoidal waveform s peak voltage. This may help to gain higher fundamental voltage when the permissible peak voltage is limited to a given value.

An exemplary four pole machine is shown in . Because two phase and four phase windings may have substantially the same substantially 90 electric phase shift between phases the same number of switching devices that control the fields may be used for the two or four phases that drive these systems. In some applications a four phase inverter may include four half bridge legs or full bridges or two H bridge for the two phases. Some four phase half bridge connections may provide a neutral connection although third harmonic currents may flow without it. Some four phase circuits provide a hop along benefit when one or two phases are not in order.

In the four pole machine includes a set of two phase windings. In other four pole machines distributed windings concentrated pole windings etc. are used. In the electrical angular location in the air gap may be tracked by the angle p that is the product of the pole pair p and the mechanical angle . The phase 1 coils may provide an angular reference for the two phase machine with the phase 2 coil starts at about 90 electrical degrees from this reference. The exemplary orientation may be maintained for other two phase machine with any number of poles such as the system shown in illustrating a four pole machine that has four phase windings.

The total phase current may be controlled locally or remotely. A local or remote controller or injector may adjust the magnitude and phase shift angle of its third harmonic component. Adding the desirable fundamental and third harmonic currents may render different current waveforms. The control may adjust the shape and phase as shown by the exemplary currents in the time domain of .

A two phase or four phase model may mathematically represent how a third harmonic injected into the stator winding changes the shape of an air gap flux distribution. In a phase 1 pulsating third harmonic ampere turns distribution may modeled by the third harmonic space wave form sin 3 p 0 where p is the number of pole pairs and is the mechanical angle multiplied by a third harmonic current A cos 3 t where A is the magnitude of the third harmonic ampere turns t is time in seconds and is the shift angle of the third harmonic current. sin 3 0 cos 3 1 

The phase 2 pulsating third harmonic ampere turns distribution is modeled by lagging 3 90 in both the space and time domains. sin 33 90 cos 33 90 2 

Equations 1 and 2 of the pulsating waves may be expanded to their forward and backward rotating components as shown in Equations 3 and 4 respectively.

A resultant third harmonic rotating field may be represented by the sum of the two phase fields. Adding the right hand sides of 3 and 4 renders Equation 5.

The wires of some wound coils may be wrapped around many core shapes without crossing. A high slot fill factor may be achieved and labor cost may be reduced when automation winders wind the cores. is cross section of a portion of a four pole machine that has four bobbin wound outer cores and four inner cores. The available phase span for each core is or is about 180 electric degrees. In the first phase or phase 1 end turn is positioned near an outer diameter of the core. The second phase or phase 2 end turn is located axially over the phase 1 end turn. Non magnetic slot openings that may receive non magnetic connectors or pins may be positioned near the center region of the inner surface of the core. In the inner cores comprise curved parallelepiped like cross sections. In the outer cores comprise wedge like cross sections joined by annular portions that may bound a cavity region. In some machines axially wavy spring keys may be distributed between the outer bobbin wound cores and the inner bobbin wound cores to secure them in the radial direction after assembly.

Some systems and processes of may use the third harmonic ampere turns in the air gap to modify the shape of the air gap flux distribution. Those systems may receive or inject third harmonic current that produces a harmonic flux that is synchronous with a fundamental frequency current. In those systems the shape of the back emf may be modified and may produce a smooth third harmonic torque.

The systems and processes of describe aspects of a bobbin core technology that enables 180 electric degree phase span for each phase for a two phase or four phase electric machine. Uniform slot fill factors for all phases may be ensured and may interface any number of poles or pole structures. Substantially round or substantially rectangular wires may be wound about the outer bobbin and inner bobbin wound cores. Automated winding devices may improve the slot fill factor by minimizing undesirable space between the wires. Cavity coupling axially inserted non magnetic pins and wavy spring keys may support or strengthen the mechanical integrity of the multi phase electric machines. In some applications the third space harmonic contents and the stator ampere turns distributions may be controlled by modifying the air gap through the shape of the pole arc of the bobbin cores and or by modifying the shape of the magnetic paths of the bobbin core.

While various embodiments of the invention have been described it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that many more embodiments and implementations are possible within the scope of the invention. Accordingly the invention is not to be restricted except in light of the attached claims and their equivalents.

