---

title: Agent feedback tool
abstract: An agent feedback tool includes an agent feedback database and an agent feedback module. The agent feedback module may include a vendor identification program, an agent feedback settings program, an agent feedback program, an agent reporting program, an agent summary program, and an agent profile program. The agent feedback module communicates with the agent feedback database to store mapping records and details relating to agents, vendors, vendor-specific locations, and feedback for the agents. The agent feedback program is operative to autopopulate one or more fields shown in an agent feedback graphical user interface by referring to mapping records stored in the agent feedback database.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08359228&OS=08359228&RS=08359228
owner: Accenture Global Services Limited
number: 08359228
owner_city: Dublin
owner_country: IE
publication_date: 20091112
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Pat. App. No. 61 113 969 filed Nov. 12 2008 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

This application relates to an agent feedback tool and in particular to an agent feedback tool comprising an agent feedback program operative to autopopulate one or more editable fields based on a provided agent identifier.

Providing superb customer service is often a goal for many businesses. On the frontline of these customer service businesses are agents such as customer service representatives salespersons and technical support individuals. These agents typically communicate first with the customer when a customer contacts a customer service oriented business for customer service. Hence a customer service oriented business has an interest in ensuring that the customer service provided by the agent is of the upmost quality.

Monitoring the customer service provided by agents is often a laborious and time consuming endeavor. A customer may have any number of issues and an agent may not always provide the appropriate level of service to the customer for any number of reasons. There may be a lack of training lack of experience or any other number of issues. It is important to track the agent s performance yet the varying level of customer service provided by the agent is not always monitored and a customer service oriented business suffers as a result.

The agent feedback tool assists in the management and review of agent feedback. In one implementation the agent feedback tool includes an agent profile program an agent feedback program a vendor identification program an agent feedback settings program an agent reporting program and an agent summary program. The agent feedback tool programs communicate with an agent feedback database for managing and displaying the agent feedback.

In one implementation the agent feedback database includes an agent feedback mapping record that has an agent specific vendor identification entry an agent specific location identification entry an agent identification entry and an agent specific agent feedback entry. The agent specific vendor identification entry stores an agent specific vendor identifier and the agent specific location identification entry stores an agent specific location identifier. The agent identification entry stores an agent identifier and the agent specific agent feedback entry stores an agent feedback identifier. The agent specific vendor identifier the agent specific location identifier and the agent feedback identifier may be specific for the agent identified by the agent identifier.

In one implementation the agent profile program is operable to generate an agent profile graphical user interface that includes an editable agent specific vendor identification field and an editable agent specific location identification field. The editable agent specific vendor identification field receives the previously mentioned agent specific vendor identifier and the editable agent specific location identification field receives the agent specific location identifier. In addition the agent profile program is operable to populate the agent specific vendor identification entry with the received agent specific vendor identifier and populate the agent specific location identification entry with the received agent specific location identifier.

The agent feedback tool also includes an agent feedback program. The agent feedback program is operable to display an agent feedback graphical user interface. The agent feedback graphical user interface includes an agent selector entry an agent specific vendor identification field and an agent specific location identification field. The agent selector entry is configured to accept an agent identifier that identifies an agent.

In one implementation the agent feedback program autopopulates one or more fields using the agent feedback mapping record. For example the agent feedback program may reference the agent feedback mapping record using the agent identifier or any other identifier to retrieve the agent specific vendor identifier and the agent specific location identifier. After retrieving the agent specific vendor identifier and the agent specific location identifier the agent feedback program may then autopopulate the agent specific vendor identification field with the agent specific vendor identifier and the agent specific location identification field with the agent specific location identifier. The agent feedback program is also operable to accept agent feedback and store a corresponding agent specific agent feedback identifier in the agent specific agent feedback entry

Other systems methods features and advantages will be or will become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following figures and detailed description. All such additional systems methods features and advantages are included within this description are within the scope of the invention and are protected by the following claims.

The clients may be thin clients desktop computers laptop computers handheld devices or any other type of computing client now known or later developed. The clients may communicate with the agent feedback tool using a computer program for displaying graphical elements such as Microsoft Internet Explorer available from the Microsoft Corporation located in Redmond Wash. Another type of computer program for displaying graphical elements includes Firefox available from the Mozilla Corporation located in Mountain View Calif. The clients may also use other types of computer programs such as spreadsheet based computer programs document editing computer programs or any other type of computer program now known or later developed.

The clients communicate with the agent feedback tool to manage agents and feedback for the agents. Agents include customer service representatives call handlers salesperson and other types of individual who interact with the customers of an enterprise. Managing agents may include adding personal agent information removing personal agent information updating personal agent information modifying agent information adding agents deleting agents or other type of management. Examples of personal agent information include an agent s name the agent s vendor or employer the location of where the agent is employed the duration of the agent s employment the name of the agent s supervisor or other personal agent information. Additional information for an agent is further described with reference to .

Feedback generally describes evaluative information derived from an interaction. In the context of the agent feedback tool agent feedback describes evaluative information derived from an interaction between an agent and another actor such as another agent customer vendor or other entity. For example the feedback for an agent may describe whether the feedback is for a complaint or commendation a primary issue of the entity that led to the feedback the cause of the feedback and details relating to the cause of the feedback. Other types of feedback are also possible.

Managing the feedback may include a number of administrative and or personal actions. In the context of administrative actions managing feedback may include adding removing or updating the types or specific descriptions of feedback and whether the types or specific descriptions of feedback are visible to a user of the agent feedback tool . As discussed with reference to managing feedback may include managing primary agent feedback and managing secondary agent feedback. Any other level of feedback such as tertiary or quaternary is also possible.

In the context of personal actions managing feedback may include providing editing or removing feedback for an agent. The feedback for an agent may also include primary agent feedback and secondary agent feedback. Primary feedback may be top level feedback and secondary feedback may be feedback that provides additional details regarding a top level feedback. Other feedback levels such as tertiary and quaternary feedbacks are also possible. Managing feedback for an agent may be based on the available viewable and or selectable feedback.

The agent feedback tool facilitates managing of agents and feedback. In one implementation the agent feedback tool includes an input output interface a memory and a processor . The input output interface receives instructions and communications from the clients via the network . The input output interface may be any communication interface such as a hardware interface a software interface or a combination of hardware and software interfaces. Examples of hardware interfaces include a keyboard a mouse a network interface device an IDE interface a SATA interface or any other hardware interface now known or later developed.

The input output interface processes input from the clients and passes the input to the processor . The processor may be any type of hardware processor software processor or a combination of hardware and software processors. The processor communicates the input to an agent feedback module stored in a memory . The memory may also store an agent feedback database .

The input received from the clients may include database access requests profile access requests manage feedback requests manage agent requests or any other type of request. The input received from the clients may also include data such as a vendor identifier location identifier agent identifier feedback agent personal information or any other information. Other types of inputs are also possible.

The agent feedback module processes the input from the processor . The agent feedback module may be implemented in hardware or software. In one implementation the agent feedback module is implemented using an Internet web site a Structured Query Language SQL database and one or more Microsoft Excel spreadsheets. SQL is also commercially available from the Microsoft Corporation.

In processing the input the agent feedback module may communicate one or more database queries to the agent feedback database . After processing the input from the processor the agent feedback module communicates outputs to the processor which are then communicated to the clients via the input output interface and network . Outputs from the agent feedback module may include instructions for displaying a graphical user interfaces vendor information location information agent personal information agent feedback information or any other type of output now known or later developed. The outputs may also include instructions for displaying a mapping record such as an agent feedback mapping record a vendor identification mapping record or any other type of mapping record.

Referring back to in one implementation the vendor identification program is in communication with the vendor identification table . The vendor identification program facilitates the management of vendor information stored in the vendor identification table . A vendor may be the entity that employs the agent. However the vendor may also have some other relation to the agent.

The vendor identification table may include one or more vendor identification mapping records. A vendor mapping record may include a global vendor identification entry and a vendor specific location identification entry. The global vendor identification entry stores a vendor identifier that identifies a vendor. The global vendor identification entry is global because it may be accessed by one or more programs such as the agent feedback program or other programs. The vendor specific location identification entry stores a vendor specific location identifier that identifies a location specific to the vendor. For example the vendor specific location identifier may identify a geographic location of the vendor such as where the vendor is headquartered or the vendor specific location identifier may identify a location where the vendor operates. The vendor specific location identifier may identify other locations such as where the vendor has clients or other contacts. Other locations identified by the vendor specific location identifier are also possible. Table 3 below shows one example of a vendor identification mapping record.

As shown in Table 3 the vendor identification table has four mapping records. The first mapping record identifies that the vendor identifier Convergys is associated with the vendor specific location identifiers Nebraska and Manila. Similarly a second mapping record identifies that the vendor Accenture is associated with the vendor specific location identifier Dallas. Using the vendor identification program one or more of the clients may modify one or more of the vendor mapping records. For example a client may remove the vendor specific location identifier Manila or a client may remove an entire mapping record. A client may also add vendor specific location identifiers or add global vendor identifier to the vendor identification table. Other modifying actions are also possible.

The agent feedback settings program facilitates the management of global primary agent feedback identifiers and global secondary agent feedback identifiers. A global primary agent feedback identifier identifies a global primary agent feedback. Moreover each of the global primary agent feedback identifiers may be associated with a global primary agent feedback category that categorically describes the type of the global primary agent feedback. Examples of global primary agent feedback categories include Feedback Type Customer Primary Issue and Feedback Cause Group. Other types of global primary agent feedback categories are also possible.

The agent feedback settings program communicates with a primary agent feedback settings table to manage the global primary agent feedback identifiers. The primary agent feedback settings table may include one or more global primary agent feedback setting entries that store the global primary agent feedback setting identifiers. The global primary agent feedback setting entries may be global so that the global primary agent feedback setting entries are accessible to one or more programs such as the agent feedback program . The primary agent feedback settings table may also include global primary agent feedback mapping records that associate the global primary agent identifiers to the global primary agent feedback categories. Table 4 below shows one example of global primary agent feedback mapping records.

As shown in Table 4 the primary agent feedback settings table has three global primary agent feedback mapping records. A first mapping record associates the global primary agent feedback category of FeedBack Type with the global primary agent feedback identifiers Coaching Opportunity Commendation and Executive Complaint. Similarly a second global primary agent feedback mapping record associates the global primary agent feedback category of Customer Primary Issue with the global primary agent feedback identifiers of Billing Issue Broadband Connectivity and Broadband Wireless Issue. Alternative global primary agent feedback mapping records are also possible.

The agent feedback settings program also communicates with a secondary agent feedback settings table to manage global secondary agent feedback identifiers. A secondary agent feedback identifier identifies a secondary agent feedback that further describes a primary agent feedback. Hence one or more of the secondary agent feedback identifier may be associated with a primary agent feedback identifier.

The global secondary agent feedback settings table may include one or more global secondary agent feedback setting entries that store the global secondary agent feedback setting identifiers. The global secondary agent feedback setting entries may be global so that the global secondary agent feedback setting entries are accessible to one or more programs such as the agent feedback program . The secondary agent feedback settings table may also include global secondary agent feedback mapping records that associate the global secondary agent identifiers to global secondary agent feedback categories and the global primary agent feedback identifiers. Table 5 below shows one example of a global secondary agent feedback mapping record.

As shown in Table 5 the global secondary agent feedback mapping record associates a global secondary agent feedback category of Feedback Cause Detail and a global primary agent feedback identifier Commendation with three global secondary agent feedback identifiers Customer Commendation Agent Commendation and Client Commendation. Alternative or additional global secondary agent feedback mapping records are also possible. For example each of the global primary agent feedback identifiers identified in Table 5 may also be associated with a global secondary agent feedback identifier.

The agent profile program facilitates the management of agent profile information. In one implementation the agent profile program communicates with the agent profile table and the vendor identification table to manage the agent profile information. The agent profile program may also communicate with additional or alternative tables.

The agent profile table includes an agent specific vendor identification entry storing an agent specific vendor identifier an agent specific location identification entry storing an agent specific location identifier and an agent identification entry storing an agent identifier. The agent profile table may also manage alternative or additional identifies relating to agent profile information. Moreover the agent profile table may include agent profile mapping records that associate the various agent profile identifiers with an agent profile identifier. In managing the agent profile table the agent profile program may refer to one or more additional tables such as the vendor identification table . Table 6 below lists and describes examples of identifiers that may be managed by the agent profile table . Additional agent profile identifiers are also possible.

The agent feedback program facilitates the management of feedback for an agent. In one implementation the agent feedback program communicates with the vendor identification table the primary agent feedback settings table the secondary agent feedback settings table and the agent profile table for managing the feedback for an agent. In one implementation the agent feedback program stores the feedback for an agent in the agent feedback table . The agent feedback table may include an agent feedback mapping record that has an agent specific vendor identification entry storing an agent specific vendor identifier and an agent specific location identification entry storing an agent specific location identifier. The agent feedback mapping record may also include an agent identification entry storing an agent identifier and an agent specific agent feedback entry storing an agent specific agent feedback identifier.

The agent feedback program may refer to one or more tables such as the agent profile table the vendor identification table the primary agent feedback settings table or the secondary agent feedback settings table for populating the entries of the agent feedback mapping record. Alternatively the agent feedback mapping record may be a composite of one or more records. For example the agent feedback mapping record may be a composite of a mapping record of the agent feedback table and a mapping record of the agent profile table . In generating the composite mapping record the agent feedback program may access both the agent feedback table and the agent profile table . One example of an agent feedback mapping record is discussed with reference to .

The agent reporting program and the agent summary program each generate reports and summaries respectively for the agent feedback tool . In generating reports the agent reporting program may refer to one or more tables such as the agent feedback table the agent profile table or other tables. Similarly in generating summaries the agent summary program may also refer to one or more tables such as the agent feedback table the agent profile table or other tables. In one implementation the agent reporting program retrieves an agent feedback mapping record from the agent feedback table and displays the agent feedback mapping record. The agent reporting program is further discussed with reference to .

Similarly the agent summary program may communicate with the agent feedback table to generate summaries of agent feedback. For example the agent feedback table may generate a summary of agent feedback according to a vendor identifier a location identifier a feedback status identifier that identifies the status of the feedback an agent identifier or any other number of identifiers. The agent summary program is further discussed with reference to .

As shown in the agent feedback mapping record includes a numerical feedback identifier that identifies the numeral identification for this particular feedback an editable selection control that is dynamically linked to the agent feedback mapping record that when manipulated brings the details of the agent feedback mapping record to an editable form a date identifier that identifies the date of when the feedback was entered an agent identifier that identifies the agent for the feedback a submitter identifier that identifies the submitter e.g. one of the clients of the feedback a status identifier that identifies the status of the feedback e.g. valid invalid pending disputed or reviewed an action date identifier that identifies a date on which action was taken in response to the feedback an action taken identifier that identifies the action that was taken in response to the feedback an agent specific vendor identifier for the agent and an agent specific location identifier for the agent.

The agent feedback mapping record also includes a date occurred identifier that identifies when the incident leading to the feedback occurred a case identifier that identifies the case on which the agent was working that led to the feedback a DSL TN identifier that identifies a DSL TN number a feedback details that identifies the specific details of the feedback a manager date identifier that identifies a manager details identifier that identifies a review date identifier that identifies a review response identifier that identifies a new DSL identifier that identifiers and an ISP identifier that identifies. Finally the agent mapping record includes agent specific agent feedback identifiers . The agent specific agent feedback identifiers comprise a composite of primary and second agent feedback identifiers. For example the agent specific feedback includes agent specific primary agent feedback identifiers and an agent specific secondary agent feedback identifier .

After being authenticated the agent summary program outputs instructions for generating an agent summary graphical user interface. shows one example of an agent summary graphical user interface . The agent summary graphical user interface includes manipulative agent feedback tool controls . Manipulation of the controls may include clicking selecting pressing or otherwise manipulating the control.

The agent feedback tool controls include a home control a reports control a user accounts control a settings control a vendor center control a feedback control and a logout control . Manipulating the controls instructs the agent feedback tool programs to generate a corresponding graphical user interface. For example manipulating the reports control may instruct the agent reporting program to generate an agent reporting graphical user interface. In one implementation the reports control is associated with the agent reporting the user accounts control is associated with the agent profile program the settings control is associated with the agent feedback settings program the vender center control is associated with the vendor identification program and the feedback control is associated with the agent feedback program . The logout control may be configured to instruct the agent feedback tool or any of the agent feedback programs to cease operation for the particular user that manipulated the control .

The agent summary graphical user interface includes an agent feedback summary status chart and an agent feedback summary chart . The agent feedback summary status chart displays information relating to the status of feedbacks for a vendor. As shown in the feedback summary status chart shows that the vendor identified as Convergys has 1 pending agent feedback and a total of 1 agent feedback. The agent feedback summary chart displays information relating to the agent feedback for specific agents. As shown in the agent feedback summary displays that the agent identified as ap207s has 1 feedback and the agent totty has 1 feedback.

The agent summary program may generate the agent feedback summary status chart and the agent feedback summary chart by querying one or more of the tables in the agent feedback database . For example the agent summary program may generate the summary charts by querying the agent feedback table outputting the results of the query. The agent summary program may also generate summary charts for specific vendors specific locations or other criteria.

The agent summary graphical user interface also includes an export control that facilitates the exporting of the displayed information. In one implementation the export control facilitates the exporting of the displayed information to a preconfigured file format such as the Microsoft Excel file format also available from the Microsoft Corporation. The agent summary graphical user interface may include an import control that facilitates the importing of agent feedback.

The vendor identification graphical user interface also includes controls for populating the global vendor identification entries and the vendor specific location entries of the vendor identification table . For example the vendor identification graphical user interface includes an editable global vendor identification field that receives a global vendor identifier and an editable vendor specific location identification field that receives a vendor specific location identifier. To populate the vendor identification table with the global vendor identifier the vendor identification graphical user interface includes an add vendor control . Manipulation of the add vendor control adds the global vendor identifier displayed in the editable global vendor identification field to the vendor identification table . To remove a global vendor identifier from the vendor identification table the vendor identification graphical user interface includes a delete vendor control . Manipulation of the delete vendor control removes the global vendor identifier selected in the vendor selection control from the vendor identification table .

Similarly the vendor identification graphical user interface also includes controls for adding and removing vendor specific location identifiers to the vendor identification table . For example to populate the vendor identification table with a vendor specific location identifier the vendor identification graphical user interface includes an add center control . Manipulation of the add center control adds the vendor specific location identifier displayed in the editable vendor specific location identification field to the vendor identification table . In addition when the vendor specific location identifier is added to the vendor identification table the vendor identification program also associates the global vendor identifier selected in the vendor selection control with the added vendor specific location identifier. To remove a vendor specific location identifier from the vendor identification table the vendor identification graphical user interface includes a delete center control . Manipulation of the delete center control removes the vendor specific location identifier selected in the location selection control from the vendor identification table .

The agent feedback settings graphical user interface also includes controls for manipulating the global primary agent feedback identifiers and the global secondary agent feedback identifiers. For example the agent feedback settings graphical user interface includes an add feedback control and an editable global primary agent feedback field . The editable global primary agent feedback field is configured to receive a global primary agent feedback identifier and is associated with a global primary agent feedback category. When the add feedback control is manipulated the global primary agent feedback identifier displayed in the editable global primary agent feedback field is added to the global primary agent feedback selection control and the primary feedback settings table is updated with the added global primary agent feedback identifier. The agent feedback settings graphical user interface also includes an add feedback control and an editable global secondary agent feedback field for the global secondary agent feedback categories.

In addition the agent feedback settings graphical user interface includes controls that determine whether a global primary agent feedback identifier or a global secondary agent feedback identifier is accessible i.e. visible to a user when a user is providing feedback on an agent. When the global primary agent feedback identifier or the global secondary agent feedback identifier is visible a user may provide feedback for the agent using the visible identifier. However when the global primary agent feedback identifier or the global secondary agent feedback identifier is not visible a user may be prevented from providing feedback for the agent using the non visible identifier. One or more of the global primary agent feedback identifiers may be visible or non visible. Similarly one or more of the global secondary agent feedback identifiers may be visible or non visible.

The agent profile graphical user interface also includes an agent selection control . The agent selection control facilitates the selection of agents from the agent profile table . In one implementation the agent profile program queries the agent profile table for existing agent profiles and the agent profile program populates the agent selection control with the results of the query. An agent may be selected by manipulating the agent selection control . When an agent is selected the agent profile identifiers are retrieved from the agent profile table and populated into the editable fields .

The agent profile graphical user interface is also operable to display editable fields for editing and providing agent profile identifiers. In one implementation the profile graphical user interface displays an editable agent specific name field that receives an agent name identifier an editable agent specific project field that receives an agent specific project identifier an editable agent specific screener field that receives an agent specific screen identifier an editable agent specific password field that receives an agent specific password identifier an editable agent specific password confirmation field that receives an agent specific password confirmation identifier an editable agent specific e mail field that receives an agent specific e mail identifier an editable agent specific vendor identification field that receives an agent specific vendor identifier an editable agent specific location identification field that receives an agent specific location identifier an editable agent specific designation field that receives an agent specific designation identifier an editable agent specific supervisor field that receives an agent specific supervisor identifier an editable agent specific manager field that receives an agent specific manager identifier and an editable agent specific ATTUID field that receives an agent specific ATTUID identifier. In one implementation the agent specific manager field and the editable agent specific supervisor field include selectable values based on the agent specific location identifier.

The selectable values for the agent specific vendor identification field and the selectable values for the agent specific location identification field may be based on the global vendor identifiers and the global vendor specific location identifiers stored in the vendor identification table . For example the agent profile program may query the vendor identification table for a list of global vendor identifiers and then populate the selectable values for the editable agent specific vendor identification field with the results of that query. When a global vendor identifier is selected in the editable agent specific vendor identification field the agent profile program may then reference a vendor location association to retrieve vendor specific location identifiers from the vendor identification table and provide the retrieved vendor specific location identifiers as selectable values for the editable agent specific location identification field .

The agent profile graphical user interface may also include an agent specific administrative rights control that identifies whether the agent should have administrative rights for the agent feedback tool and an agent specific active control that identifies whether the agent is active for the agent feedback tool . In one implementation access to the agent feedback tool may be limited to agents that are identified as active. In another implementation a vendor may have access to an agent profile where the agent profile is assigned to the global vendor identifier. Hence a vendor may be responsible for updating the agent profile information for an agent without having specific administrative rights.

When the agent specific identifiers have been provided in the agent specific editable fields the agent profile program may populate or update one or more entries in the agent profile table with the provided agent specific identifiers. The populated or updated entries may be associated with an agent identifier of the agent selected in the agent selection control . In one implementation the agent profile program populates an agent specific vendor identification entry with the received agent specific vendor identifier and an agent specific location identification entry with the received agent specific location identifier. The agent profile program may populate or update other entries such as an agent specific manager entry an agent specific e mail entry or other entries.

The agent profile program may also be operative to update or populate one or more mapping records. For example the agent profile program may update or populate an agent profile mapping record associated with the agent identifier of the agent selected in the agent selection control with the provided agent specific identifiers. Alternatively or in addition the agent profile program may update or populate an agent feedback mapping record associated with the agent identifier of the agent selected in the agent selection control with the provided agent specific identifiers.

The agent profile graphical user interface may also include an editable search field and an editable search control . One or more values or identifiers may be provided to the editable search field. Manipulation of the editable search control may then instruct the agent profile program to search one or more tables such as the agent profile table with the values or identifies provided in the editable search field. The agent profile program may provide the results of the search in one or more editable agent specific fields or in the agent selection control . The agent profile program may also provide the results of the search in a separate graphical user interface.

To perform the autopopulation of the identification fields the agent feedback program references one or more mapping records. For example the agent feedback program may reference an agent feedback mapping record of the agent feedback table using the provided agent identifier in the agent selector entry to retrieve the agent specific identifier and the agent specific location identifier. Alternatively or in addition the agent feedback program may reference an agent profile record of the agent profile table using the provided agent identifier in the agent selector entry to retrieve the agent specific identifier and the agent specific location identifier. As the details for an agent may be maintained across multiple tables of the agent feedback database the autopopulation of the fields of the agent feedback graphical user interface reduces the amount of resources required to individually populate each of the fields. Moreover as the details of an agent may be complex and cumbersome allowing individual population of the data into the fields of the agent feedback graphical user interface may introduce data errors or the data may be incomplete. Hence autopopulation of the fields of the agent feedback graphical user interface ensures that the data populated into the fields of the agent feedback graphical user interface is accurate and complete.

The agent feedback graphical user interface also includes controls for providing feedback about the agent. In one implementation the agent feedback graphical user interface includes primary agent feedback controls and a secondary agent feedback control . Other feedback controls are also possible. The selectable values of the primary feedback controls are populated using the global primary agent feedback identifiers stored in the primary agent settings table . As each primary agent feedback control is associated with a global primary agent feedback category the agent feedback program may populate the selectable values of the primary agent feedback controls using the global primary agent feedback category as a reference. In a similar fashion the agent feedback program may populate the selectable values of the secondary feedback control by referring to the secondary agent settings table . In addition the agent feedback program may use a global primary agent feedback identifier selected using the primary agent feedback control to further refine the global secondary identifiers that are available as selectable values for the secondary agent feedback control .

The agent feedback graphical user interface further includes an editable DSL TN identification field that stores a DSL TN identifier and an editable case identification field that stores a case identifier. An editable feedback details control may also be provided for identifying specific details of the feedback. Other editable fields are also possible.

The agent feedback graphical user interface also includes controls for committing or clearing the data provided in the fields of the agent feedback graphical user interface . For example manipulation of the clear control may the clear values or identifies present in the editable fields and may require the re population of those fields. Manipulation of the submit control may commit the identifiers or values of the editable fields to a mapping record associated with the agent identifier in the agent selector entry . For example by manipulating the submit control the agent feedback program may commit the selected global primary agent feedback identifiers and the selected global secondary agent feedback identifier as agent specific feedback identifiers for the agent feedback mapping record associated with the agent identifier in the agent selector entry . Moreover when the submit control is manipulated the agent feedback program may add a new agent feedback mapping record to the agent feedback table or may modify a previously existing agent feedback mapping record in the agent feedback table . In one implementation adding a new agent feedback mapping record also generates a new a numerical feedback identifier associated with the newly added feedback mapping record.

The agent feedback program may also monitor the status or dates of provided feedbacks. For example the agent feedback program may automatically modify agent feedback mapping records that have a feedback status identifier of Pending to Reviewed. In one implementation the agent feedback program automatically modifies the agent feedback mapping record when a date identifier identifies that the provided feedback has reached a predetermined feedback pending time limit such as three days. Moreover the agent feedback program may provide reminders or other alarms alerting a user that an agent feedback mapping record has reached a predetermined feedback time limit of two days. Other types of monitoring are also possible.

After the initial retrieving of the agent feedback mapping records the agent reporting program may be configured to display select agent feedback mapping records based on filter criteria. In one implementation the agent reporting graphical user interface includes filter controls for selecting specific agent feedback mapping records to display. The filter controls may include a status filter control that displays selectable values corresponding to feedback status a vendor filter control that displays selectable values corresponding to vendor identifiers and a location filter control that displays selectable values corresponding to vendor specific location identifiers. Other types of filter controls such as a location filter control an agent identifier filter control and a feedback numerical identifier control are also possible. The agent reporting program may populate the selectable values of the filter controls by referencing one or more tables such as the agent profile table the agent feedback table the vendor identification table or other tables.

Display of the selected agent feedback mapping records may be initiated through manipulation of a filter display control . To display selected agent feedback mapping records the agent reporting program may compare one or more of the selected values of the filter controls with a corresponding identifier in the displayed agent feedback mapping records. Alternatively the agent reporting program may reference one or more tables such as the agent feedback table to retrieve agent feedback mapping records whose corresponding identifiers match the selected values of the filter controls .

Initially the agent feedback program receives an instruction to autopopulate the fields using a provided agent identifier . The agent feedback program then accesses a table of the agent feedback database such as the agent profile table the agent feedback table or any other table . Where the agent feedback program access the agent feedback table the agent feedback program retrieves an agent feedback mapping record that matches the provided agent identifier . Using the provided agent identifier the agent feedback program references the retrieved agent feedback mapping record to retrieve an agent specific name identifier an agent specific vendor identifier and an agent specific location identifier . After retrieving the agent specific name identifier the agent specific vendor identifier and the agent specific location identifier the agent feedback program populate the agent specific name identification field with the agent specific name identifier the agent specific vendor identification field with the agent specific vendor identifier and the agent specific location identification field with the agent specific location identifier .

The logic circuitry and processing described above may be encoded or stored in a machine readable or computer readable medium such as a compact disc read only memory CDROM magnetic or optical disk flash memory random access memory RAM or read only memory ROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or other machine readable medium as for examples instructions for execution by a processor controller or other processing device. The medium may be implemented as any device or tangible component that contains stores communicates propagates or transports executable instructions for use by or in connection with an instruction executable system apparatus or device. Alternatively or additionally the logic may be implemented as analog or digital logic using hardware such as one or more integrated circuits or one or more processors executing instructions or in software in an application programming interface API or in a Dynamic Link Library DLL functions available in a shared memory or defined as local or remote procedure calls or as a combination of hardware and software executing under any desired operating system including the Windows Linux OS X or other operating system.

In other implementations the logic may be represented in a signal or a propagated signal medium. For example the instructions that implement the logic of any given program may take the form of an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or other type of signal. The systems described above may receive such a signal at a communication interface such as an optical fiber interface antenna or other analog or digital signal interface recover the instructions from the signal store them in a machine readable memory and or execute them with a processor.

The systems may include additional or different logic and may be implemented in many different ways. A processor may be implemented as a controller microprocessor microcontroller application specific integrated circuit ASIC discrete logic or a combination of other types of circuits or logic. Similarly memories may be DRAM SRAM Flash or other types of memory. Parameters e.g. conditions and thresholds and other data structures may be separately stored and managed may be incorporated into a single memory or database or may be logically and physically organized in many different ways. Programs instructions or other logic may be parts of a single program separate programs or distributed across several memories and processors. While various embodiments of the invention have been described it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that many more embodiments and implementations are possible within the scope of the invention. Accordingly the invention is not to be restricted except in light of the attached claims and their equivalents.

