---

title: Zonal lenslet array
abstract: The invention includes a master lens, which initially focuses a laser pulse, and then the pulse passes through a zonal lenslet array, which uses different lenslet elements that provide for predetermined focal lengths so as to establish a three or two dimensional, predetermined dispersion of foci of the laser pulse. The zonal lenslet array of the present invention may be thought of as a variant of a Shack-Hartman wave front sensor, but used for an entirely different application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07957056&OS=07957056&RS=07957056
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07957056
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20091008
---
This application claims the benefit of parent application Ser. No. 10 962 811 filed Oct. 7 2004 and is related to application Ser. No. 10 962 812 filed Oct. 7 2004 by Jerome B. Franck now abandoned and entitled A Matched Filter Used as an Integral Part of an SBS System for within Cavity Pulse Reconstruction. 

The invention described herein may be manufactured used sold imported and or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America.

Lenslet arrays have been used in many different optical applications such as in telescopy holography etc. One particular use of lenslet arrays has been in Shack Hartman wave front sensors. Most of these lenslet arrays are used to form an image and or receive light and collect it in a particular manner. However use of lenslet arrays in laser applications has not been disclosed.

Recent discoveries by the inventor have revealed that it would be useful in the laser arts to be able to focus a laser source or sources into several different foci. The present invention addresses this need.

Accordingly one object of the present invention is to provide a zonal lenslet array that focuses a laser pulse into several different foci in particular one preferred embodiment of the present invention establishes a cone like dispersion of a laser pulse.

These and other objects of the present invention are achieved by providing for a master lens which initially focuses a laser pulse and then the pulse passes through a zonal lenslet array which uses different lenslet elements that provide for predetermined focal lengths so as to establish a three or two dimensional predetermined dispersion of foci of the laser pulse. The zonal lenslet array of the present invention may be thought of as a variant of a Shack Hartman wave front sensor but used for an entirely different application.

As shown in cross section in the present invention includes a laser source that produces a laser pulse. The laser pulse and laser source can take many forms but it is anticipated that the present invention will have particular use in short wave laser and high power laser applications. Given this disclosure those skilled in the art will be readily able to engineer any number of laser applications using the lenslet array of the present invention. The base of the present invention is a lenslet array that uses a plurality of lenslets that are arranged to provide for predetermined focal lengths so as to establish a three or two dimensional predetermined dispersion of foci of the laser pulse. Disposed between the lenslet array and the laser pulse will normally be a master lens which will initially focuses the laser pulse on the lenslet array. However this master lens is not necessary for all applications.

Of course as stated previously any number of lenslet array configurations are available. shows a profile of a uniform array of lenslets similar to where the lenslet elements have the same optical power. Thus the focal surface is arced back toward the array. shows a converse focal length dispersion from showing how the zonal lenslet array of the present invention can be configured to create a conical focal surface arced away from the array.

Because those skilled in the art will have to accommodate three dimensions in any design according to the present invention shows a three dimensional view of the zonal lenslet array with rotation symmetry according to the present invention. This configuration is the same as shown in cross section in . is another three dimensional view of the present invention showing the master lens focus the input laser signal onto the zonal lenslet array. This is critical if a master lens is used because the focus of the master lens will have to be accounted for in the design.

As stated previously the present invention would be particularly useful as a component in stimulated Brillouin scattering SBS short wave laser configuration. Such a configuration is shown in . As shown a SBS laser cell configuration comprises a shaping lens on an axis circular aperture followed by a higher power and a condensing lens followed by a zonal lenslet array according the present invention. Also shown in is a beam expander and a passive method for extracting the traveling laser pulse from the system.

A diode pumped eye safe laser produces an energy at the focus that is above the air breakdown threshold. An initial laser pulse beam is produced via a laser source . The first output pulse beam exits the laser and is immediately expanded via beam expander . This is actually unnecessary for the original pulse beam but becomes critical for the second pulse beam as will be explained later. The output is then passed through a passive polarization rotator . The expanded beam is focused such that the energy at the focus is above the air breakdown threshold. It passes through the pinhole which has a radius somewhat greater than the 1 eGaussian radius of the incoming laser beam. The beam then leaves the spatial filter and the beam passes the second lens that has a shaping power greater than the first lens thus causing it to have a focus inside the SBS cell .

This converging beam now passes through the zonal lenslet array of the present invention. This breaks the incoming wave into sections as shown in the previous figures each with their own unique angle yet all coming to a common focus and hence to a common SBS acoustic grating. This is critical so that all portions of the beam remain in phase with all other portions of the wave front in their original manner. The beams are at first phase conjugated until the plasma switching takes place and the return beam is truncated. Now each SBS phase conjugated beam section re enters the zonal lenslet array. Those aberrated portions of the beam may either miss the appropriate lens or as a minimum enter the lens at an angle in variance with the original beam section. Since each lenslet has optical power they also produce angular magnification thus increasing their angular variance. Next the total light from the beam passes through the second higher power lens causing the beams to focus at the spatial filter e.g. . Primarily the aberrated portion of the beam is separated from the original beam along with the higher spatial frequencies associated with the beam sampling aperture of the lenslet array. The cleaned up beam is now collimated by the first lens passes back through the system as discussed in the prior art and is now de magnified back to its original size and is now amplified. After its double pass amplification the high peak power pulse emerges from the laser and is immediately expanded to prevent damage to the up stream optical components. The beam passes through the passive extraction section and is ejected from the laser.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the present invention has applications for high power laser systems as well. Given this disclosure those skilled in the art would be able to configure many different types of laser applications using the zonal lenslet array according to the present invention. Because this system is novel those skilled in the art would have to devise beam shaping simulators that could take into account the plurality of the foci created by the zonal lenslet array. The Zemax generated figures used in this specification shows that this is possible. Moreover while the figures of the specification show relatively two dimensional zonal lenslet arrays the arrays themselves can take any form such as cylindrical such that the zones of the array are uniform in the x direction and changing in the y direction.

