---

title: Bulk dimensional nanocomposites for thermoelectric applications
abstract: Thermoelectric elements may be used for heat sensors, heat pumps, and thermoelectric generators. A quantum-dot or nano-scale grain size polycrystalline material the effects of size-quantization are present inside the nanocrystals. A thermoelectric element composed of densified Groups IV-VI material, such as calcogenide-based materials are doped with metal or chalcogenide to form interference barriers form along grains. The dopant used is either silver or sodium. These chalcogenide materials form nanoparticles of highly crystal grains, and may specifically be between 1- and 100 nm. The compound is densified by spark plasma sintering.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08759662&OS=08759662&RS=08759662
owner: University of South Florida
number: 08759662
owner_city: Tampa
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090402
---
This invention was made with Government support under Grant No. DE PS26 04NT42113 awarded by the Department of Energy and Grant No. W81XWH 07 1 0708 awarded by the Department of Defense U.S. Army Medical Research and Materiel Command. The Government has rights in the invention.

This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 041 748 entitled Thermoelectric Nanocomposites and Manufacturing Method filed on Apr. 2 2008 the contents of which are herein incorporated by reference.

This invention relates to enhancing thermoelectric properties of devices. Specifically the invention entails using nano scale fabrication on thermoelectric materials to improve the efficiency of thermoelectric devices.

The demand for new technologies to enhance the efficiency of our Nation s automobiles is at the forefront of new materials research towards power conversion technologies. Thermoelectric TE elements have been used as heat sensors for temperature measurement heat pumps in applications with low power demand or where compression refrigerating systems cannot be used for other reasons and in thermoelectric generators TEG . However unit costs are relatively high and the efficiency too low in TEGs to allow for general commercialization of TE devices. There exists a vast array of potential applications for TE elements due to decreasing energy resources and increasing energy demand. TE power conversion from exhaust waste heat is a viable technology that can be instrumental in improving the efficiency and thus reducing emitted pollutants of our nation s automobiles. Because TE devices can translate heat flow into electrical current thermoelectric generators may be used as a renewable energy source in automotive fuel economy electricity generation. TE technology is advantageous in many respects including reliability no moving parts safety and environmental friendliness. When a temperature gradient is maintained across a TE device electric potential is generated due to the Seebeck effect which can be used to drive a load or generator.

Research into higher efficiency thermoelectric TE materials continues to require advanced synthesis techniques. The specific material property requirements for TE materials can be quantified by the dimensionless figure of merit ZT S where S is the Seebeck coefficient the electrical conductivity and the total thermal conductivity the lattice and electronic contributions respectively . The power factor S or S where is the electrical resistivity is typically optimized as a function of carrier concentration typically 10carriers cmin materials presently available in devices through doping to give the largest ZT. The current TE materials used in devices are rather inefficient ZT 1 even though they are able to address many niche applications. In order that TE devices achieve their full potential new materials and new material synthesis approaches are needed. Materials with larger values of ZT warrant better thermoelectric devices thus researchers have devoted much effort in finding ways to increase ZT. Since the transport properties that define ZT are interrelated it is difficult to control them independently for a three dimensional crystal.

The thermoelectric potential which determines the electrical voltage that can be generated depends on the material specific thermoelectric characteristics based on the Seebeck coefficient and temperature differences. High Seebeck coefficients and large temperature differences lead to high thermoelectric voltages. In order to be able to draw large electrical power a large temperature difference must be maintained between the elements of a TE device. This necessitates the use of bulk materials with high Seebeck coefficients. With the present methods for manufacturing TE elements either it is not possible in practice to manufacture such bulk materials or the manufacture of such bulk TE elements would lead to exorbitant manufacturing costs.

Recent research on TE materials has resulted in ZT values greater than unity at different temperatures of application due to the advanced material synthesis characterization and modeling capabilities developed. Several classes of materials have added to these advances. These include bulk materials such as skutterudites and clathrates G. S. Nolas et al. Skutterudites A phonon glass electron crystal approach to advanced thermoelectric energy conversion applications Ann Rev. Mat. Res. 29 8. 1999 C. Uher Skutterudites Perspective novel materials in 69 139 2000 B. C. Sales et al. Filled skutterudite antimonides A new class of thermoelectric materials 272 1325 1996 G. S. Nolas et al. Semiconductor Clathrates A phonon glass electron crystal material with potential for thermoelectric applications in Vol. 69 edited by T. M. Tritt Academic Press 2000 p. 255 G. S. Nolas Structure transport and thermoelectric properties of clathrate compounds in edited by D. M. Rowe CRC Press Boca Raton Fla. 2005 33 1 A. Saramat et al. Large thermoelectric figure of merit at high temperature in Czochralski grown clathrate BaGaGe J. Appl. Phys. 99 023708 2006 and complex chalcogenides M. G. Kanatzidis The role of solid state chemistry in the discovery of new thermoelectric materials in 69 51 2000 with unique crystal structures allowing for low and therefore enhanced thermoelectric properties.

Additionally research and development in nanotechnology has shown promising improvements in Seebeck coefficient with new TE materials. The controlled fabrication of nanoscale semiconductors with enhanced physical properties is a current goal of technical as well as fundamental interest. Thin film coatings and nanotube technology allows production of two dimensional or one dimensional thermoelectric structures with improved TE characteristics compared to traditional bulk materials but still do not solve the problem of manufacturing bulk materials that are inexpensive. Nevertheless nanostructured materials have become of great interest because they offer the opportunity of independently varying the transport properties that define ZT G. S. Nolas J. Sharp and H. J. Goldsmid Springer New York 2001 G. Chen M. S. Dresselhaus G. Dresselhaus J. P. Fleurial and T. Caillat Vol. 48 London 2003 p. 45 66 .

Semiconductor grain boundaries on carrier transport becomes increasingly important in nanoscale polycrystalline systems where surface point defect dislocation and interfacial energy barrier scatterings can dominate the transport G. Blatter and F. Greuter Phys. Rev. B 34 8555 1986 H. Marom M. Ritterband M. Eizenberg Thin Solid Films 510 62 2006 C. H. Seager J. Appl. Phys. 52 3960 1981 . Recent identification of several higher efficiency thermoelectric TE materials can be attributed to nanoscale enhancement M. S. Dresselhaus G. Chen M. Y. Tang R. Yang H. Lee D. Wang Z. Ren J. P. Fleurial and P. Gogna Adv. Mater. 19 1043 2007 L. D. Hicks M. S. Dresselhaus Phys. Rev. B 47 16631 1993 J. P. Heremans C. M. Thrush and D. T. Morelli J. Appl. Phys. 98 063703 2005 K. F. Hsu S. Loo F. Guo W. Chen J. S. Dyck C. Uher T. Hogan E. K. Polychroniadis M. G. Kanatzidis Science 303 818 2004 M. S. Dresselhaus G. Chen M. Y. Tang R. G. Yang H. Lee D. Z. Wang Z. F. Ren J. P. Fleurial and P. Gogna 886 3 2006 . These materials demonstrate increased Seebeck coefficient and decreased thermal conductivity due to the phenomenological properties of nanometer length scales including enhanced interfacial phonon scattering and charge carrier filtering.

Nanometer scale materials have been at the core of one of the most substantial advances in thermoelectric technology since the development of semiconductor technology Mater. Res. Soc. Proc. Vol. 886 edited by J. Yang. T. P. Hogan R. Funahachi and G. S. Nolas 2006 . The two mechanisms that led to this success were a strong reduction in and an increase in S . The reduction in can be understood as a function of phonon mean free path J. W. Sharp et al. Boundary Scattering of Phonons and thermoelectric figure of merit Physica Status Solidi a 187 507 2001 G. S. Nolas and H. J. Goldsmid The Figure of Merit in Amorphous Thermoelectrics Physica B 194 271 2002 S. Bhattacharya et al. Grain Structure Effects on the Lattice Thermal Conductivity of Ti Based Half Heusler Alloys Appl. Phys. Lett. 81 43 2002 . Quantum confinement results in a strongly increased Seebeck coefficient due to the increase in the density of states of the carriers L. D. Hicks and M. S. Dresselhaus Effect of quantum well structures on the thermoelectric figure of merit Phys. Rev. B 47 12727 1993 . This observation was at the origin of the interest in nanoscale thermoelectricity and experimentally observed on bismuth nanowires J. P. Heremans et al. Thermoelectric Power of Bismuth Nanocomposites Phys. Rev. Lett. 88 216801 2002 .

Nanostructured TE enhancement aims to split the interdependence of the electrical and thermal transport allowing for better optimization of the TE figure of merit G. S. Nolas et al. Springer New York N.Y. 2001 . The reduction of through the interface scattering of phonons in nanostructured materials has been viewed as the primary way to increase ZT M. S. Dresselhaus et al. New Directions for Low Dimensional Thermoelectric Materials Adv. Mater. 19 1043 2007 R. Venkatasubramanian et al. Thin film thermoelectric devices with high room temperature figures of merit Nature 413 597 2001 T. C. Harman et al. Quantum Dot Superlattice Thermoelectric Materials and Devices Science 297 2229 2002 T. Koga et al. Experimental proof of principle investigation of enhanced ZT in 001 oriented Si Ge superlattices Applied Physics Letters 77 1490 2000 . The particular mechanism is the effective scattering of phonons due to the presence of interfaces.

Superior TE performance requires enhancement of the power factor S . Carrier filtering where the presence of interfacial energy barriers filters low energy charge carriers traversing the interface has been theoretically predicted Y. I. Ravich In edited by D. M. Rowe pages 67 73 CRC Press New York 1995 B. Moyzhes and V. Nemchinsky Appl. Phy. Lett. 73 1895 1998 . This increases ISI as its value depends on the mean carrier energy relative to the Fermi level G. S. Nolas J. Sharp and H. J. Goldsmid Springer New York N.Y. 2001 .

Carrier scattering at the boundaries that inhibits the conduction of low energy charge carriers thus causing an overall increase in S was first proposed theoretically L. W. Whitlow and T. Hirano Superlattice applications to thermoelectricity J. Appl. Phys. 78 5460 1995 Moyzhes and V. Nemchinsky Thermoelectric figure of merit of metal semiconductor barrier structure based on energy relaxation length Appl. Phys. Lett. 73 1895 1998 and has been experimentally investigated in III V heterostructures D. Vashaee and A. Shakouri Improved thermoelectric power factor in metal based superlattices Phys. Rev. Lett. 92 106103 2004 . Very little experimental research effort has been undertaken into the investigation of S enhancement of nano scale inclusions in bulk materials. Research on PbTe K. Kishimoto and T. Koyanagi Preparation of sintered degenerate n type PbTe with a small grain size and its thermoelectric properties J. Appl. Phys. 92 2544 2002 J. P. Heremans et al. Thermopower enhancement in lead telluride nanostructures Phys. Rev. B 70 115334 2004 Si Ge alloys M. S. Dresselhaus et al. New directions for nanoscale thermoelectric materials research Proc. Mater. Res. Soc. 886 3 2006 BiTe B. Poudel et al High Thermoelectric Performance of Nanostructured Bismuth Antimony Telluride Bulk Alloys Science 320 634 2008 and Ce filled skutterudites with unfilled skutterudite nano grains P. C. Znai et al. Nanostructures and enhanced thermoelectric properties in Ce filled skutterudite bulk materials Appl. Phys. Lett. 89 052111 2006 have shown an improvement in S as compared to their bulk counterparts. These studies however have not fully developed the physics behind the underlying phenomena affecting the transport properties as a function of grain size. In all five of these studies the ball milling technique that was used to synthesize nanoscale powders of the respective materials causes strain in these materials that surely affected their transport properties as compared to hot pressed HP sintered bulk polycrystalline specimens. This was specifically noted in the work of Heremans et al. Thermopower enhancement in lead telluride nanostructures Phys. Rev. B 70 115334 2004 . The affect on nano feature size is therefore not well established from these studies. More recently a study by Heremans et al. Thermoelectric enhancement in PbTe with Pb precipitates J. Appl. Phys. 98 063703 2005 showed an increase in S due to 3 and 6 nano grain Pb precipitates. Most recently we have synthesized and measured the transport properties of polycrystalline PbTe with 100 nm PbTe inclusions and showed enhanced S with minimal degradation in a as compared to bulk polycrystalline PbTe A. J. Crocker and L. M. Rogers Brit. Interpretation of the Hall coefficient electrical resistivity and Seebeck coefficient of p type lead telluride J. Appl. Phys. 18 563 1967 .

In a quantum dot or nano scale grain size polycrystalline material the effects of size quantization is present inside the nanocrystals. However experimental studies involving bulk thermoelectric materials with nanostructure inclusions or granular nanocomposites indicated that TE property improvements for bulk nanocrystalline materials are feasible K. Kishimoto and T. Koyanagi J. Appl. Phys. 92 2544 2002 J. P. Heremans C. M. Thrush and D. T. Morelli Physical Review B 70 115334 2004 J. Martin G. S. Nolas W. Zhang and L. Chen Appl. Phys. Lett. 99 222112 2007 . These studies have suggested that the thermoelectric properties can be enhanced by increasing S . The physical mechanism responsible for S enhancement in these materials has not been developed. It has been demonstrated that PbTe PbTeSe quantum dot superlattices can have a two fold increase in room temperature ZT as compared to bulk PbTe T. C. Harman P. J. Taylor M. P. Walsh and B. E. LaForge Science 297 2229 2002 T. C. Harman M. P. Walsh B. E. LaForge and G. W. Turner J. Electron. Mat. 34 L19 2005 . Additionally materials containing PbTe nanogranular formations J. P. Heremans C. M. Thrush and D. T. Morelli Phys. Rev. B 70 115334 2004 J. Martin G. S. Nolas W. Zhang and L. Chen Appl. Phys. Lett. 90 222112 2007 or Si and Ge nanoparticles have also been shown to exhibit an increase in ZT.

Experimental studies indicate that the carrier scattering at the interfaces may be an important factor in the overall increase in ZT. In particular it is speculated that for polycrystalline materials the grains appear as traps for low energy carriers while the higher energy carriers diffuse trough the specimen Y. I. Ravich CRC Press New York 1995 . In fact the enhancement of the TE properties in nanocomposites has been attributed to the presence of carrier interface potential barrier scattering mechanism which is not typical for bulk materials. The grain boundaries therefore appear to filter out the lower energy carriers. Since the mean energy per carrier is increased S increases while is not degraded significantly. Filtering by energy barriers has been theoretically predicted and experimentally observed in thin films and heterostructure systems D. Vashaee and A. Shakouri Phys. Rev. Lett. 92 106103 2004 D. Vashaee and A. Shakouri J. of Appl. Phys. 95 1233 2004 G. D. Mahan and L. M. Woods Phys. Rev. Lett. 80 4016 1998 .

The thermoelectric properties may be altered by approaching nano scale dimensions. These include superlattice structures of BiTe SbTe R. Venkatasubramanian et al. Thin film thermoelectric devices with high room temperature figures of merit Nature 413 597 2001 PbSeTe PbTe and PbTe thin films that contain nanodots of PbSe. T. C. Hannan et al. Quantum Dot Superlattice Thermoelectric Materials and Devices Science 297 2229 2002 . Nanodots of PbTe can form inside AgPbSbTecrystals with ZT 1.7. K. F. Hsu et al. Cubic AgPbSbTe Bulk Thermoelectric Materials with High Figure of Merit Science 303 818 2004 H. Wang et al. High performance AgPhSbTethermoelectric bulk materials fabricated by mechanical alloying and spark plasma sintering Appl. Phys. Left. 88 092104 2006 A. Kosuga M. Uno K. Kurosaki S. Yamanaka Thermoelectric properties of Stoichiometric AgPhSbTe x 0 0.1 0.2 J. Alloys Comp 391 288 2005 In most of the present research the effort focuses on reducing to increase ZT.

In certain embodiments a thermoelectric element composed of densified Groups IV VI material. For example chalcogenide based materials such as PbTe are useful. A metal or chalcogenide dopant is integrated into the chalcogenide forming nanoparticles such that interference barriers form along grains. The dopant is either silver or sodium in specific embodiments.

In certain embodiments the Group IV VI materials are chalcogenide. These chalcogenide materials are optionally nanoparticles of highly crystal grains and may specifically be between 1 and 100 nm. The chalcogenide nanoparticles may be BiTe SbTe PbSeTe PbTe CdS CdSe ZnSe ZnS CsS PbS or PbSeS. In specific embodiments the nanocrystals are PbTe particles ranging in size from 100 150 nm. The chalcogenide nanoparticles can also be core shell nanocrystals with a metal dopant core and semiconducting coating in specific embodiments. The semiconducting compound is optionally densified by spark plasma sintering.

The thermoelectric element may be used for heat sensors heat pumps and thermoelectric generators and may specifically be a thermoelectric generator adapted for use on an automobile.

A phenomenological model is proposed to describe the diffusion transport of carriers through a material composed of nanogranular regions. The material is viewed as containing potential interface barriers due to the grains and the transport includes quantum transmission through and reflection from those barriers. Additional scattering mechanisms such as carriers acoustic phonons carriers non polar optical phonons and carriers ionized impurities which are relevant for thermoelectric materials are also taken into account. The model involves a set of physical parameters which can be measured independently or taken from the literature to calculate or make predictions for the transport characteristics for relevant thermoelectrics or define grain barrier characteristics such as height width and distance between them and predict grain barrier influence on thermoelectric transport. The model is tested by comparing the calculated carrier conductivity and thermopower to experimental data for PbTe dimensional nanocomposites.

A nanofabricated thermoelectric may be created using at least one semiconducting Groups IV VI element. A metal or chalcogenide dopant is mixed with the semiconducting compound forming nanoparticles of dopant and semiconducting material. The material is then densified. The nanoparticles are optionally formed by ultrasonic homogenizer. In specific embodiments the dopant semiconducting material is densified by spark plasma sintering or hot pressing

In some embodiments the dopant is dissolved in the lead acetate. In certain embodiments the dopant may be silver or sodium and may specifically be silver acetate.

A model for describing the diffusive transport properties in granular nanocomposite materials is proposed and successfully applied to explain relevant experimental data. The interfaces of the nano scaled granular regions are modeled as rectangular barriers. The transport through the material includes carrier quantum mechanical transmission and scattering from the barriers carrier phonon and carrier ionized impurities scattering within the grains. The theoretically calculated and S can reproduce the experimental observations obtained for Ag doped PbTe and undoped PbTe nanocomposite specimens. We have shown that the interplay between the different scattering mechanisms as well as the carrier concentration and the physical parameters for the barriers are important in finding an optimal regime for the TE performance of a given material. Specifically our model reveals that by manipulating the barrier size and height the mean energy per carrier may be increased leading to an increase in S without substantial degradation of . Furthermore this model can be adapted within the relaxation time approximation for other IV VI material systems composed of highly crystalline grains by incorporating the relevant physical parameters in the total density of states and scattering mechanisms.

As used herein the term Group IV VI refer to compounds located at locations IVA through VIA on the periodic table. These include semiconducting materials and specifically chalcogenides.

As used herein the term nanoparticle means one or more nanoparticles with an average diameter ranging from 1 to 100 nm.

As used herein the term dopant means an element compound or compounds which provide a substantial number of shallow donor or acceptor levels in the semiconductor material so as to substantially alter the conductivity of the material. Exemplary dopants are metal or chalcogenides such as silver or sodium. Those of skill in the art will understand that other dopant compounds or elements exist for use in the semiconductor materials.

TE samples were synthesized employing solution phase and sonochemical synthesis methods. The samples were then characterized structurally chemically electrically and thermally for evaluation of the materials properties. Core shell nanocrystals permit manipulation of physical parameters by forming metallic and semiconducting coatings around the nanocrystals to produce additional quantum confined states at these interfaces. A solution phase synthesis approach is the best approach in producing large batches of phase pure nanoscale powders of chalcogenides. Chalcogenide compounds lend themselves to the development of core shell nanocrystalline bulk composite materials synthesis. The approach has been previously described C. B. Murray et al. Synthesis and characterization of monodisperse nanocrystals and closed packed nanocrystal assemblies Annu. Rev. Mater. Sci. 30 545 2000 and is optimized to produce large quantities of PbTe and PbSe nanocrystals required for the nanocomposite formation.

PbTe was used as an exemplary material however other nanocomposites are envisioned. Without limiting the invention examples include semiconductor semiconductor composites metal metal composites and metal non metal composites such as PbSe PbSe PbTe SbTe PbTe AgSbTe PbSe and alloys of PbTe and PbSe such as PbSnSe.

Integration of core shell nanocrystals into bulk materials suggests new possibilities for tuning interfacial energy barriers and observing the affect on the transport properties. Core shell nanocomposite thermoelectric materials may reduce the carrier mobility thus having the potential to degrade the thermoelectric properties although the potential increase in S may more than offset this degradation.

Monodisperse nanocrystals were produced using solution phase synthesis and sonochemical methods. Nano spheres of PbTe or PbSe were synthesized using solvent techniques employing a low temperature reaction of tellurium for PbTe or selenium for PbSe in alkaline aqueous solutions with a lead acetate trihydrate solution. Large yields of nano sphere semiconductors were obtained in up to 10 grams per batch shown in . It is noted that large batch sizes are a prerequisite in synthesizing bulk quantities of thermoelectric materials.

Structural microscopic and chemical analyses of the desired materials were undertaken including x ray diffraction and electron diffraction analysis for structural characterization. Tunneling Electron Microscopy TEM was used to study nano grain size and structure as well as inter grain regions in the compacted materials and to monitor and characterize the presence of any disordered or other extraneous phases resulting from localized deformation at inter particle regions. SEM with energy dispersive spectroscopy permitted analysis of grain size composition and composite uniformity.

Hot Pressing HP of powders has been the mainstay of densification of polycrystalline materials for thermoelectrics applications. Spark Plasma Sintering SPS was used to densify composites with nanocrystals 100 nm. SPS utilizes a direct electrical current or a pulse of electric current applied to the graphite punch and die set which passes through the sample thereby heating both the outside and inside of the sample simultaneously. This process generates internal localized heating and allows for the rapid low temperature densification of fine grained powders M. Omori Sintering consolidation reaction and crystal growth by the spark plasma system SPS Mater. Sci. Eng. A287 183 2000 Z. A. Munir et al. The effect of electric field and pressure on the synthesis and consolidation of materials A review of the spark plasma sintering method J. Mater. Sci. 41 763 2006 and has been used for fine grain densification of thermoelectric alloys such as BiSb and BiTe resulting in lower while maintaining excellent electrical properties. In addition the grains possessed orientational direction as required for optimization in BiSb and BiTe Y. Lee and T. Koyanagi Thermoelectric Properties of n Bi Sb Sintered Alloys Prepared by Spark Plasma Sintering Method in 202001 p. 279 . Long distance mass diffusion is restricted during the SPS process thus phase formation is determined by local chemistry allowing for phase assembly far from equilibrium and avoiding the formation of transient phases Z. Shen and M. Nygren Kinetic aspects of superfast consolidation of silicon nitride based ceramics by spark plasma sintering J. Mater. Chem. 11 204 2001 Z. Shen et al. Formation of tough interlocking microstructures in silicon nitride ceramics by dynamic ripening Nature 417 266 2002 .

Varying the parameters pressure and current DC and pulsed adjusts the grain size in the 10 to 100 nm range allowing for tuning of grain size and transport properties. The nanostructure is preserved following the SPS procedure with grains ranging from 100 nm to over 1 micron as seen in the representative SEM image of a PbTe fracture surface in . This image also indicated SPS densification allows for nanocomposite formation with minimal conglomeration of the nanograins.

Different chalcogenide constituents were doped using the techniques described above. A major complication in consolidating nanoparticles within a bulk matrix is the formation of an organic or oxide molecular layer on the surface which is very hard to remove completely. Such a layer may lead to high due to inter particle scattering. In addition for thermoelectric applications doping towards optimized carrier concentrations is essential. As shown below the overall S of PbTe nanocomposites is enhanced is not drastically reduced . Ag doped PbTe nanocrystals were prepared as described above with the addition of Ag CHCOO to the aqueous solution. X ray diffraction indicated phase purity while Hall measurements indicated an increase in carrier concentration as compared to the nominally undoped PbTe nanocomposites seen in Table I.

Core shell composites permit the formation of an ultra thin layer of a desired material either metallic or more interestingly another chalcogenide around chalcogenide nanocrystals forming a cladding that can act as a quantum well structure. The thickness and type of material of the cladding will determine the strength of the scattering of charge carriers as well as the tunneling probability of the higher energy carriers thus allowing for the tunability of electrical properties. While carrier mobility decreases the increase in S for an optimized configuration compensates for the mobility decrease and leads to an overall enhancement in S while also reducing increasing the overall TE properties. Core shell composites also prevent grain growth that may lead to the reduction in the nano features during extended high temperature TE device operation.

The growth of epitaxial shells over the core nanocrystals has been demonstrated using a modified two injection synthesis process M. Brumer et al. PbSe PbS and PbSe PbSeSCore Shell Nanocrystals Advanced Functional Materials 15 1111 2005 . This method has demonstrated success in many Core Shell systems including Si SiO CdS Cd OH CdSe ZnSe CdSe ZnS CdS HsS CsS CdS CdS PbSe PbS and PbSe PbSeS M. Brumer et al. PbSe PbS and PbSe PbSeSCore Shell Nanocrystals Advanced Functional Materials 15 1111 2005 X. Peng et al. Epitaxial Growth of Highly Luminescent CdSe CdS Core Shell Nanocrystals with Photostability and Electronic Accessibility J. Amer. Chem. Soc. 119 7019 1997 . Extending this technique to nanocomposites such as PbSe PbTe and their alloys enables relative bandgap tailoring between the two materials and possible tuning of the electronic structure by varying shell thickness.

PbTe nanocomposites were prepared by densifying 100 nm PbTe nanocrystals synthesized in high yield employing a solution phase reaction of two monometallic aqueous precursor solutions J. Martin et al. PbTe nanocomposites synthesized from PbTe nanocrystals Appl. Phys. Lett. 90 222112 2007 W. Zhang et al. Synthesis of nanocrystalline lead chalcogenides PbE E S Se or Te from alkaline aqueous solutions Materials Research Bulletin 35 12 2009 2000 . Lead telluride nanocrystals were synthesized employing an aqueous solution phase reaction by mixing a Te KOH aqueous solution and lead acetate trihydrate Pb CHCOO .3HO solution at low temperature and standard atmosphere. The carrier concentrations were modified by directly doping the PbTe nanocrystals with Ag AgTe prior to the densification procedure specimens III and IV . Ag doped PbTe nanocrystals were prepared by dissolving 0.33 mg a Ag compound in 6.68 gm of Pb CHCOO .3HO solution to achieve the desired carrier concentration. This procedure reproducibly synthesizes 100 150 nm spherical PbTe nanocrystals confirmed by TEM with a high yield. The amounts disclosed are exemplary and should not be construed as limiting the invention. The amounts disclosed may be varied by one in the art based on the desired quantity of end product such as the amount of Ag doping in the PbTe nanocrystals disclosed in the present example.

These nanocrystals were subjected to Spark Plasma Sintering to consolidate these nanoscale grains within a dense PbTe matrix at 95 bulk theoretical density resulting in a dimensional nanocomposite structure as observed in scanning electron microscope images of both fracture and polished surfaces. Densifying solely the nanocrystals results in the dispersion of non conglomerated nanostructure within a bulk matrix J. Martin et al. PbTe nanocomposites synthesized from PbTe nanocrystals Appl. Phys. Lett. 90 222112 2007 with grains ranging from 100 nm to over 1 micron. Table I lists room temperature physical properties described below. X ray diffraction following SPS indicated 5 vol. PbTeOimpurity for specimens I and II and 3 vol. TeOimpurity for specimens III and IV.

The nanocomposites were cut into 2 2 5 mmparallelepipeds for transport property measurements. Four probe resistivity and steady state gradient sweep Seebeck coefficient and S respectively were measured from 12 to 300 K in a custom radiation shielded vacuum probe with maximum uncertainties of 4 and 6 respectively at 300 K J. Martin et al. Thermoelectric properties of silicon germanium type I clathrates J. Appl. Phys. 102 103719 2007 . Temperature dependent four probe Hall measurements were conducted from 5 to 300 K at both positive and negative magnetic fields of up to 5 T to eliminate voltage probe misalignment effects and room temperature measurements taken to eliminate thermal instabilities with a 10 uncertainty.

For all specimens a linear and positive magnetic field dependence of the Hall resistance confirms dominant p type conduction. The carrier concentrations increase upon Ag doping by more than a factor of 5 as listed in Table I. Correspondingly the values as shown in Table I exhibit a significant reduction in magnitude compared to the undoped specimens. All specimens exhibit relatively large room temperature S values of approximately 325 V K for the two undoped specimens and 200 V K for the two Ag doped specimens.

The nanocomposite model was tested by comparing low temperature transport measurements for Ag doped PbTe nanocomposites. These results demonstrate how effectively the model describes experimental data for PbTe nanocomposite material.

The scattering mechanisms that dominate the transport in bulk lead chalcogenides do not fully describe the unique temperature dependence of in these nanocomposites implying the presence of an additional scattering mechanism. In non degenerate semiconductors the carriers are scattered by long wavelength acoustic phonons m T Yu. I. Ravich B. A. Efimova and I. A. Smirnov Plenum N.Y. 1970 . Since the factor m is inversely proportional to temperature in lead chalcogenides based on experimental temperature dependence of m the mobility therefore varies with T as experimentally observed in single crystal and polycrystalline lead chalcogenides with a weaker dependence in degenerate specimens Yu. I. Ravich B. A. Efimova and I. A. Smirnov Plenum N.Y. 1970 W. Scanlon in 9 Academic Press NY 1959 . . This dependence is opposite of that observed in the PbTe nanocomposites suggesting phonon scattering is present in combination with an additional mechanism. Furthermore the experimental data indicates is not proportional to Tin these nanocomposites and suggests scattering by ionized impurities is not a dominant mechanism. The high in PbTe implies suppression of long range Coulomb potentials limiting scattering to near the internal point of an impurity due to the large Bohr radius m on the order of the lattice constant E. H. Putley Proc. Phys. Soc. B 65 736 1952 N. A. Poklonski S. A. Vyrko V. I. Yatskevich and A. A. Kocherzhenko J. Appl. Phys. 93 9749 2003 and consequently a small screening length. Therefore it is unlikely that ionized impurity scattering is effectively present in these nanocomposites particularly at room temperature where the interaction time the time required for the carrier to pass the region of one impurity ion N. A. Poklonski S. A. Vyrko V. I. Yatskevich and A. A. Kocherzhenko J. Appl. Phys. 93 9749 2003 is significantly shorter.

The nanocomposite carrier conduction can be effectively described as dominated by grain boundary potential barrier scattering in combination with phonon scattering. Similar models have successfully described the electrical properties of silicon CdTe and nanostructured metal oxide films C. H. Seager Grain boundary recombination Theory and experiment in silicon J. Appl. Phys. 52 3960 1981 J. Y. W. Seto J. Appl. Phys. 46 5247 1975 O. Vigil Galan et al. Influence of the growth conditions and postdeposition treatments upon the grain boundary barrier height of CdTe thin films deposited by close space vapor transport J. Appl. Phys. 90 3427 2001 G. Kiriakidis et al. High Performance Gas Sensing Materials Based on Nanostructed Metal Oxide Films Rev. Adv. Mater. Sci. 10 215 2005 . Studies indicated oxygen adsorption in the PbTe nanocomposites J. Martin et al. PbTe nanocomposites synthesized from PbTe nanocrystals Appl. Phys. Lett. 90 222112 2007 . This surface reactivity is difficult to prevent considering the aqueous nature of the synthesis technique W. Zhang et al. Synthesis of nanocrystalline lead chalcogenides PbE E S Se or Te from alkaline aqueous solutions Materials Research Bulletin 35 12 2009 2000 . The surface oxidation of PbTe is a sequential process proceeding first through the formation of weak peroxide like structures up to 70 coverage then by the chemisorption of oxygen T. S. Zyubina V. S. Neudachina L. V. Yashina V. I. Shtanov Surface Science 574 52 2005 . Density Functional Theory DFT calculations of the surface reactivity of PbTe T. S. Zyubina V. S. Neudachina L. V. Yashina V. I. Shtanov XPS and ab initio study of the interaction of PbTe with molecular oxygen Surface Science 574 52 2005 indicate these oxygen complexes form chemical bonds by transferring charge from the tellurium atoms T. S. Zyubina V. S. Neudachina L. V. Yashina V. I. Shtanov XPS and ab initio study of the interaction of PbTe with molecular oxygen Surface Science 574 52 2005 . These chemical shifts were experimentally confirmed through X ray Photoemission Spectroscopy XPS . The chemisorption of oxygen essentially forms carrier trapping acceptor states by removing electrons from the grain surface reducing itinerant carrier density. For nanocrystalline materials this chemisorption results in increased trapping of carriers at grain boundaries forming energy barriers that impede the conduction of carriers between grains. Assuming a uniformly distributed concentration of ionized carrier traps N cm a grain boundary thickness less than the crystallite size L whose morphology and size distribution are identical and within the grains less than through the boundary the effective mobility is given by J. Y. W. Seto The electrical properties of polycrystalline silicon films J. Appl. Phys. 46 5247 1975 

The one dimensional time independent WKB transmission probability for the potential barrier is given by V. V. Mitin Contribution of light holes to thermionic field emission in Si and Ge Phys. Rev. B 31 2584 1985 exp 2 2 14 where xand xare the classical carrier turning points with energy E m is the effective mass and qV x is the interfacial barrier energy. Therefore the tunneling probability is a maximum for charge carriers with smaller m . The electrical transport in p type PbTe is dominated by two bands a lower mobility heavy hole HH valence band below the light hole LH valence band at low temperature where 10 m m Yu. I. Ravich B. A. Efimova and I. A. Smirnov Plenum N.Y. 1970 L. M. Rogers Drift mobility of light mass holes in PbTe heavily doped with Na Brit. J. Appl. Phys. 1 1067 1968 . We assume similar m and band structure for the nanocomposites. At low temperature and higher hole densities the electrical properties are dominated nearly exclusively by the LH carriers. As the temperature increases the HH band rises resulting in a decreasing and an increase in carrier scattering for the higher carrier density specimens. At higher temperature when the average energy of the charge carriers is sufficient to overcome the grain boundary energy barrier conduction is dominated through thermionic emission Texp E kT and increases with temperature. Grain boundary potential barrier scattering of the carriers in combination with phonon scattering gives rise to the unique temperature dependence of the electrical conductivity and the mobility in these nanocomposites.

The effective crystallite size was estimated using equation 1 the energy barriers obtained from fitting the temperature dependence of the values calculated from the room temperature carrier concentration and the HH m 1.5 m Yu. I. Ravich B. A. Efimova and I. A. Smirnov Plenum N.Y. 1970 and references therein . These estimates indicate effective crystallite sizes between 300 and 400 nm listed in Table I and are consistent with the dimensional nanocomposite structure observed in our SEM analyses. This suggests the grain boundary energy barrier scattering is dominated through these nanoscale features. Of note inclusion of LH carriers in the calculation only slightly lowers the effective crystallite size.

Furthermore conduction through the boundary potential barrier between grains essentially filters lower energy charge carriers increasing the average carrier energy and consequently S . shows the room temperature S for the PbTe nanocomposites in comparison to theoretically calculated bulk values Yu. I. Ravich B. A. Efimova and I. A. Smirnov Plenum N.Y. 1970 and references therein A. J. Crocker and L. M. Rogers Brit. J. Appl. Phys. 18 563 1967 indicating an enhancement in S as compared to bulk PbTe at the same carrier concentration. In addition we compare the room temperature S for the nanocomposites to two of our undoped and two Na doped bulk PbTe specimens indicating an enhancement in S over that of bulk PbTe by up to a factor of two inset in . The larger S in the nanocomposites as compared to bulk polycrystalline materials in addition to similar thermal conductivities Table I and Yu. I. Ravich et al. Plenum N.Y. 1970 results in enhanced room temperature ZT of up to a factor of two as compared to bulk PbTe. Therefore interfacial energy barrier carrier filtering is an effective method of thermoelectric performance enhancement in these bulk nanocomposites.

PbTe nanocomposites were prepared by densifying 100 nm PbTe nanocrystals synthesized in high yield employing a solution phase technique. SPS successfully consolidated these nanoscale grains within a dense PbTe matrix. The carrier concentrations were modified by directly doping the PbTe nanocrystals with Ag prior to densification. The unique temperature dependence of and suggests an additional scattering mechanism in combination with phonon carrier scattering dominant in single crystal and polycrystalline lead chalcogenides. For these nanocrystalline materials the chemisorption of oxygen likely results in increased trapping of carriers at grain boundaries forming energy barriers that impede the conduction of carriers between grains. This conduction is effectively described as dominated by grain boundary potential barrier scattering in combination with phonon scattering. Furthermore these nanocomposites demonstrate an enhanced TE performance as compared to bulk PbTe thus interfacial energy barrier carrier scattering is an effective method of thermoelectric performance enhancement in bulk nanocomposites.

In the preceding specification all documents acts or information disclosed does not constitute an admission that the document act or information of any combination thereof was publicly available known to the public part of the general knowledge in the art or was known to be relevant to solve any problem at the time of priority.

The disclosures of all publications cited above are expressly incorporated herein by reference each in its entirety to the same extent as if each were incorporated by reference individually.

While there has been described and illustrated specific embodiments of a thermoelectric device it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that variations and modifications are possible without deviating from the broad spirit and principle of the present invention. It is also to be understood that the following claims are intended to cover all of the generic and specific features of the invention herein described and all statements of the scope of the invention which as a matter of language might be said to fall therebetween.

