---

title: Methods and systems for analyzing medication levels in a sample
abstract: Methods and systems for assessing patient compliance with opioid drug therapy are provided. A liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometer (LC/MS/MS) can be used to simultaneously detect a set of measurements including an amount of at least ten opioids (and their metabolites) in a body fluids sample from a patient. The set of at least ten opioids can include at least oxymorphone and fentanyl. The amounts of opioids and their metabolites are analyzed. For example, the ratios of opioids and their respective metabolites can be used to determine which opioids a patient has been administered. A report of patient compliance is generated based on the set of measurements.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08067243&OS=08067243&RS=08067243
owner: Oregon Medical Laboratories
number: 08067243
owner_city: Springfield
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090902
---
This application claims priority to Application Ser. No. 61 093 888 filed Sep. 3 2008 the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates to methods and systems for analyzing medication levels in a sample. In particular the invention relates to methods and systems for analyzing opioid opiate in a body fluids sample.

Promoting pain relief and preventing the abuse of pain medications can be difficult for health professionals to balance. Patients who use drugs of abuse are more likely to abuse pain medications and more likely to divert medication either for financial gain or to fund an addition to legal or illegal drugs. Patients who use drugs of abuse are also at higher risk of combining such use with the legal drugs that are prescribed to them which puts them at risk for overdoses and accidents. Patients who take legally prescribed controlled medications may also be knowingly or unknowingly combining prescriptions from multiple prescribers which can put them at risk for overdoses and accidents. The ingestion of multiple opioid opiates can result in respiratory depression and or fatal respiratory failure. Moreover death rates from prescription opioid opiate use are increasing and the abuse of prescription opioid opiate use is also increasing.

However the interpretation of pain management opioid opiate toxicology test data is complex. Physicians may lack the time and or expertise to interpret pain management opioid opiate toxicology data. In addition opioid opiate drug metabolism is complex and some opioid opiate drug metabolites are also available as prescription drugs which makes the source of the opioid opiate drug difficult to determine.

Embodiments according to the present invention include methods and systems for assessing patient compliance with opioid drug therapy. A liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometer LC MS MS can be used to simultaneously detect a set of measurements including an amount of at least ten opioids and their metabolites in a body fluids sample from a patient. The set of at least ten opioids can include at least oxymorphone and fentanyl. The amounts of opioids and their metabolites can be analyzed and or the ratios of opioids and their respective metabolites can be used to determine which opioids a patient has ingested. A report of patient compliance can be generated based on the set of measurements.

In some embodiments the at least ten opioids that are simultaneously detected include the following hydrocodone hydromorphone oxycodone oxymorphone codeine morphine 6 monoacetylmorphine meperidine fentanyl and or nor fentanyl. In particular embodiments the detection threshold can be as low as 2 5 ng mL. In addition drugs of abuse can also be detected such as alcohol amphetamines barbiturates benzodiazepines cocaine marijuana methadone phencyclidine and or propoxyphene.

In some embodiments the report of patient compliance can be generated using data related to prescription information. The report can identify a set of discrepant and consistent results for the clinician. Accordingly patient compliance with prescribed opioids can be assessed and or additional prescription medications or other substances e.g. drugs of abuse can be detected and identified to the prescriber.

The present invention now will be described hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings and examples in which embodiments of the invention are shown. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art.

Like numbers refer to like elements throughout. In the figures the thickness of certain lines layers components elements or features may be exaggerated for clarity.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features steps operations elements components and or groups thereof. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items. As used herein phrases such as between X and Y and between about X and Y should be interpreted to include X and Y. As used herein phrases such as between about X and Y mean between about X and about Y. As used herein phrases such as from about X to Y mean from about X to about Y. 

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. It will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the specification and relevant art and should not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein. Well known functions or constructions may not be described in detail for brevity and or clarity.

It will be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements these elements should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element from another. Thus a first element discussed below could also be termed a second element without departing from the teachings of the present invention. The sequence of operations or steps is not limited to the order presented in the claims or figures unless specifically indicated otherwise.

The present invention is described below with reference to block diagrams and or flowchart illustrations of methods apparatus systems and or computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It is understood that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustrations and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustrations can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer and or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer and or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the block diagrams and or flowchart block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the block diagrams and or flowchart block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions acts specified in the block diagrams and or flowchart block or blocks.

Accordingly the present invention may be embodied in hardware and or in software including firmware resident software micro code etc. . Furthermore embodiments of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product on a computer usable or computer readable storage medium having computer usable or computer readable program code embodied in the medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system.

Embodiments according to the present invention include methods and systems for assessing patient compliance with opioid drug therapy. As shown in a system for assessing patient compliance includes a sample extraction device and a liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometer LC MS MS . The sample extraction device can be a Hamilton MICROLAB Starlet automated extraction device and can be configured to prepare or partially purify a sample for the LC MS MS . The LC MS MS can be used to simultaneously detect a set of measurements including an amount of at least ten opioids and their metabolites in a body fluids sample from a patient. The set of at least ten opioids can include at least oxymorphone and fentanyl. The amounts of opioids and their metabolites are analyzed by an opioid metabolite analyzer . For example the ratios of opioids and their respective metabolites can be used to determine which opioids a patient has taken or administered. A report generator generates a report of patient compliance based on the set of measurements.

In some embodiments the at least ten opioids that are simultaneously detected include the following hydrocodone hydromorphone oxycodone oxymorphone codeine morphine 6 monoacetylmorphine meperidine fentanyl and or nor fentanyl. In particular embodiments additional drugs e.g. drugs of abuse can be detected such as alcohol amphetamines barbiturates benzodiazepines cocaine marijuana methadone phencyclidine and or propoxyphene. In some embodiments drugs of abuse can be detected using immunoassays for a screen. If the screen is positive it is confirmed using gas chromatography mass spectrometry.

The report of patient compliance can be generated based on the ratios of the concentrations of the opioid drugs and their metabolites to determine the opioid drug taken by or administered to the patient. In some embodiments a set of discrepant and or consistent results for a plurality of opioid drugs is determined by comparing the set of measurements with data relating to prescription information for the patient. The discrepant and consistent results can indicate whether a patient is taking opioid drugs being prescribed or taking additional drugs. As used herein the terms consistent refers to a report result that is consistent with a probable opioid source a safety standard and or an expected result such as an expected result based on patient prescription information. The terms non consistent or discrepant refer to a report result that is not consistent with a probable opiod source a safety standard and or an expected result.

Although embodiments according to the present invention are described herein with respect to assessing patient compliance for example with a prescription it should be understood that reports of probable opioid source s can be generated according to some embodiments for subjects for which prescription information is not provided or is unknown including forensic sample tests or screening tests for patient safety before an opioid prescription is provided. An opioid source is an originally administered or ingested compound that manifests itself as a detected amount of opioid or opioid metabolite.

In some embodiments the LC MS MS can detect threshold cutoff amounts of opioids or opioid metabolites below 10 ng ml and as low as 2 5 ng ml. For example in some embodiments oxymorphone morphine hydrocodone hydromorphone oxycodone oxymorphone codeine morphine 6 monoacetylmorphine and meperidine are detected to threshold cutoff amounts of 5 ng ml and fentanyl and nor fentanyl are detected to threshold cutoff amounts of 2 ng ml. By detecting opioid levels as low as 2 5 ng ml the occurrences of false negatives can be reduced the time during which the test reliably detects a positive result can be increased and the fast metabolizers of certain opioids can be detected.

LC MS MS is described for example in Coles et al. Journal of Analytical Toxicology Vol. 31 January February 2007 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 940 065 to Graber et al. the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties. LC MS MS can allow for testing for the free non conjugated drug which can avoid a hydrolysis step typically required for sample preparation in less sensitive methods e.g. gas chromagraphy mass spectrometry. In addition 6 monoacetylmorphine a metabolite of heroin can be isolated with LC MS MS which is definitive proof of heroin use. Hydrolysis will hydrolyze 6 monoacetylmorphine which will prevent detection of this heroin metabolite.

In some embodiments when a clinician receives a result that indicates the patient is taking a medication that was not prescribed the patient is questioned about the source of the medication. In some cases this may result in the patient s removal from the practice.

The interpretation of opiate opioid results can be difficult because several commonly prescribed opiates codeine and opioids hydrocodone and oxycodone metabolize to active opiate opioid drugs codeine morphine hydrocodone hydromorphone and oxycodone oxymorphone which are also available by prescription.

In addition to the major metabolism that occurs in standard doses of opiate opioids when high doses of codeine or morphine are used in tolerant patients alternative metabolism can occur to commonly prescribed opioids codeine hydrocodone and morphine hydromorphone . A summary of the major and minor metabolism of opiate opioids is provided in and an opiate opioid metabolism diagram is shown in .

For example in heroin detection the detection of 6 monoacetylmorphine is proof of heroin use. However the absence of 6 monoacetylmorphine does not rule out heroin use when morphine is present. Common reasons for the presence of morphine include a morphine prescription codeine prescription because codeine metabolizes to morphine dietary poppy seeds and heroin use. Therefore determining whether a detected opiate opioid is from a legitimate use or illicit use can be difficult.

In addition patients may not have a drug present that was prescribed for a variety of reasons including non compliance with the prescription diversion fast metabolism drug induced metabolism e.g. rifampin poor drug absorption e.g. celiac disease and or dilute urine. Patients may also have a drug present that was not prescribed for various reasons such as normal opiate opioid metabolites from a legitimate prescription opiate opioid metabolite found when high doses of codeine or morphine are used high dose codeine can metabolize to hydrocodone and high dose morphine can metabolize to hydromorphone a prescription may have been obtained from another physician the medication can be obtained from a spouse or friend or or there may be illicit use of a drug obtained without a prescription.

Methods and systems according to some embodiments of the present invention can test for the substances according to Tables 1 2 below.

An exemplary patient report is provided in . As can be seen in positive results for a drug are highlighted with an arrow indicating positive results. It should be understood that other techniques for visually drawing a viewer s attention to the positive results can be used for example by using all capital letters and or color to indicate positive results. As can be seen in positive results are also printed at the beginning of the report with an interpretive comment i.e. the hydrocodone positive result is consistent with a hydrocodone prescription and the oxycodone positive result is discrepant because oxycodone should be negative. Accordingly medical health professionals can quickly interpret the test results.

As shown in a requisition form can be used for ordering the test in which the ordering physician or other medical health professional identifies the drugs that the patient is currently taking e.g. based on patient interviews patient history medical record s etc. . A box is checked next to each identified drug and next to each box is a barcode for each specific prescription medication or class of prescription drug e.g. in the case of non opioids such as benzodiazepine . In particular embodiments the practitioner can select barcodes e.g. barcode stickers corresponding to the prescriptions taken by the patient and affix the barcodes to the patient sample. In some embodiments a barcode can be provided to indicate that prescription information is not known. Accordingly the barcodes affixed to the patient sample or provided with the patient sample can be used to quickly and automatically enter patient information such as prescription information into an opioid metabolite analyzer such as the analyzer in . Although illustrates barcodes it should be understood that other machine readable codes can also be used such as radio frequency identification tags. For example a barcode reader or other suitable automated reader can be used to receive the prescription information and this reader can be included as part of the system of . The prescription information can then be cross checked for example using the bar coded patient record information for each specific drug or drug class and the flowcharts provided in . Accordingly the report generation and cross checking techniques described herein for comparing actual drug test results with prescribed medication can be fully or nearly fully automated.

Flowcharts for generating reports as shown in are provided in . Where ratio percentages are provided it should be understood that the ratios are between 5 . For example if a ratio is provided as less than 40 the value should be understood to be less than about 35 45 . The information derived from the flow charts provided in can be presented in any suitable form including the exemplary patient report provided in . For example discrepant results can be highlighted and or results that indicate the use of drugs of abuse or the use of drugs for which the patient does not have a prescription can be presented.

For example illustrates a pain management or medication drug interpretation flow chart for codeine in which prescription information has been considered. If the test for codeine is positive at Block and patient records indicate that codeine is prescribed at Block then the result is considered consistent with codeine prescription at Block . If the test for codeine is positive at Block and patient records indicate that codeine is not prescribed at Block then it is determined whether 6 monoacetylmorphine is present at Block . If 6 monoacetylmorphine is positive at Block then it is determined that there is either a discrepant result because the codeine test should be negative or the codeine is a contaminant of heroine Block . If 6 monoacetylmorphine is negative at Block then it is determined that there is a discrepant result because the codeine test should be negative Block . If the test for codeine is negative at Block and patient records indicate that codeine is prescribed at Block then it is determined that there is a discrepant result because the codeine test should be positive Block which can indicate e.g. patient non compliance with a prescription. In contrast there is no comment at Block if patient records indicate that codeine is not prescribed Block .

Similarly illustrates a medication drug interpretation flow chart for fentanyl in which prescription information has been considered. If the test for fentanyl is positive at Block and patient records indicate that fentanyl is prescribed at Block then the result is considered consistent with fentanyl prescription at Block . If the test for codeine is positive at Block and patient records indicate that fentanyl is not prescribed at Block then it is determined that there is a discrepant result because the fentanyl test should be negative Block . If the test for fentanyl is negative at Block and patient records indicate that fentanyl is prescribed at Block then it is determined whether nor fentanyl is present. If the test for nor fentanyl is positive at Block then the result is considered consistent with fentanyl prescription at Block because nor fentanyl is a metabolite of fentanyl. If however the nor fentanyl test is negative at Block then it is determined that there is a discrepant result because fentanyl and or nor fentanyl should be positive Block . In contrast if the test for fentanyl is negative at Block and patient records indicate that fentanyl is not prescribed at Block then there is no comment at Block .

A medication drug interpretation flow chart for meperidine in which prescription information has been considered is illustrated in . If the test for meperidine is positive in Block and patient records indicate that meperidine is not prescribed at Block then it is determined that there is a discrepant result because the meperidine test should be negative Block . If however the test for meperidine is positive in Block and the patient records indicate that meperidine is prescribed Block then the results are consistent with meperidine prescription Block . In contrast if the test for meperidine is negative in Block and patient records indicate that meperidine is prescribed at Block then it is determined that there is a discrepant result because the meperidine test should be positive Block . If however patient records indicate that meperidine is not prescribed at Block there is no comment in Block .

A medication drug interpretation flow chart for methadone in which prescription information has been considered is illustrated in . If the test for methadone is positive in Block and patient records indicate that methadone is not prescribed at Block then it is determined that there is a discrepant result because the methadone test should be negative Block . If however the test for methadone is positive in Block and the patient records indicate that methadone was prescribed Block then the results are considered consistent with methadone prescription Block . In contrast if the test for methadone is negative in Block and patient records indicate that methadone is prescribed at Block then it is determined that there is a discrepant result because the methadone test should be positive Block . If however patient records indicate that methadone is not prescribed at Block there is no comment in Block .

A medication drug interpretation flow chair for oxycodone in which prescription information has been considered is illustrated in . If the test for oxycodone is negative in Block and patient records indicate that oxycodone is prescribed at Block then it is determined that there is a discrepant result because the oxycodone test should be positive Block . If however the test for oxycodone is negative in Block and the patient records indicate that oxycodone is not prescribed Block then there is no comment Block . In contrast if the test for oxycodone is positive in Block and patient records indicate that oxycodone is not prescribed at Block then it is determined that there is a discrepant result because the oxycodone test should be negative Block . If however patient records indicate that oxycodone is prescribed at Block the results are considered consistent with oxycodone prescription Block .

A medication drug interpretation flow chart for propoxyphene in which prescription information has been considered is illustrated in . If the test for propoxyphene is positive in Block and patient records indicate that propoxyphene is not prescribed at Block then it is determined that there is a discrepant result because the propoxyphene test should be negative Block . If however the test for propoxyphene is positive in Block and the patient records indicate that propoxyphene is prescribed Block then the results are considered consistent with propoxyphene prescription Block . In contrast if the test for propoxyphene is negative in Block and patient records indicate that propoxyphene is prescribed at Block then it is determined that there is a discrepant result because the propoxyphene test should be positive Block . If however patient records indicate that propoxyphene is not prescribed at Block there is no comment in Block .

The pain management flow chart for oxazepam in which prescription information has been considered is illustrated in . If the test for oxazepam is positive in Block then the presence of nordiazepam is determined in Block . If the test for nordiazepam is negative in Block then the presence of temazepam is determined in Block . If the test for temazepam is negative in Block and patient records indicate that benzodiazepine is prescribed Block the results are considered consistent with oxazepam SERAX use Block . If however the temazepam test is negative in Block and patient records indicate that benzodiazepine is not prescribed Block then it is determined that there is a discrepant result consistent with oxazepam SERAX use Block . If the test for temazepam is positive in Block and patient records indicate that benzodiazepine is prescribed Block the results are considered consistent with tenazepam RESTORIL use Block . If however the temazepam test is positive in Block and patient records indicate that benzodiazepine is not prescribed Block then it is determined that there is a discrepant result consistent with tenazepam RESTORIL use Block . In contrast if the test for nordiazepam is positive in Block then the presence of temazepam is determined in Block . If the test for temazepam is negative in Block and patient records indicate that benzodiazepine is prescribed Block the results are considered consistent with clorazepate TRANXENE or chlordiazepoxide LIBRIUM use Block . If however the temazepam test is negative in Block and patient records indicate that benzodiazepine is not prescribed Block then it is determined that there is a discrepant result consistent with clorazepate TRANXENE or chlordiazepoxide LIBRIUM use Block . If the test for temazepam is positive in Block and patient records indicate that benzodiazepine is prescribed Block the results are considered consistent with diazepam VALIUM use Block . If however the temazepam test is positive in Block and patient records indicate that benzodiazepine is not prescribed Block then it is determined that there is a discrepant result consistent with diazepam VALIUM use Block . If the test for oxazepam is negative in Block then the presence of nordiazepam is determined in Block . If the test for nordiazepam is negative in Block then the presence of temazepam is determined in Block . If the test for temazepam is negative in Block and patient records indicate that benzodiazepine is prescribed Block there is no comment in Block . Likewise if the temazepam test is negative in Block and patient records indicate that benzodiazepine is not prescribed Block there is no comment in Block . If the test for temazepam is positive in Block and patient records indicate that benzodiazepine is prescribed Block the results are considered consistent with tenazepam RESTORIL use Block . If however the temazepam test is positive in Block and patient records indicate that benzodiazepine is not prescribed Block then it is determined that there is a discrepant result consistent with tenazepam RESTORIL use Block . In contrast if the test for nordiazepam is positive in Block then the presence of temazepam is determined in Block . If the test for temazepam is negative in Block and patient records indicate that benzodiazepine is prescribed Block the results are considered consistent with clorazepate TRANXENE or chlordiazepoxide LIBRIUM use Block . If however the temazepam test is negative in Block and patient records indicate that benzodiazepine is not prescribed Block then it is determined that there is a discrepant result consistent with clorazepate TRANXENE or chlordiazepoxide LIBRIUM use Block . If the test for temazepam is positive in Block and patient records indicate that benzodiazepine is prescribed Block the results are considered consistent with diazepam VALIUM use Block . If however the temazepam test is positive in Block and patient records indicate that benzodiazepine is not prescribed Block then it is determined that there is a discrepant result consistent with diazepam VALIUM use Block .

A medication drug interpretation flow chart for fentanyl in which prescription information has not been considered is provided in . If the test for fentanyl is negative at Block then there is no comment in Block . On the other hand a positive fentanyl test result at Block is considered consistent with fentanyl use Block .

A medication drug interpretation flow chart for hydrocodone in which prescription information has not been considered is provided in . If the test for hydrocodone is negative in Block then there is no comment in Block . If however the test for hydrocodone is positive in Block then it is determined whether oxycodone is present. If the oxycodone test is positive at Block then the ratio of hydrocodone oxycodone is determined. If the hydrocodone oxycodone ratio is 

A medication drug interpretation flow chart for oxymorphone in which prescription information has not been considered is provided in . If the test for oxymorphone is negative at Block then there is no comment in Block . If however the test for oxymorphone is positive at Block then the presence of oxycodone is determined. A negative oxycodone test result at Block is consistent with oxymorphone use Block . If however the oxycodone test is positive at Block then the oxymorphone oxycodone ratio is determined. When the oxymorphone oxycodone ratio is 

The pain management flow chart for oxazepam in which prescription information has not been considered is illustrated in . If the test for oxazepam is positive in Block then the presence of nordiazepam is determined in Block . If the test for nordiazepam is negative in Block then the presence of temazepam is determined in Block . If the test for temazepam is negative in Block the results are considered consistent with oxazepam SERAX use Block . If however the temazepam test is positive in Block the results are considered consistent with tenazepam RESTORIL use Block . In contrast if the test for nordiazepam is positive in Block then the presence of temazepam is determined in Block . If the test for temazepam is negative in Block the results are considered consistent with clorazepate TRANXENE or chlordiazepoxide LIBRIUM use Block . If however the temazepam test is positive in Block the results are considered consistent with diazepam VALIUM use Block . If the test for oxazepam is negative in Block then the presence of nordiazepam is determined in Block . If the test for nordiazepam is negative in Block then the presence of temazepam is determined in Block . If the test for temazepam is negative in Block then there is no comment in Block . If the test for temazepam is positive in Block the results are considered consistent with tenazepam RESTORIL use Block . In contrast if the test for nordiazepam is positive in Block then the presence of temazepam is determined in Block . If the test for temazepam is negative in Block the results are considered consistent with clorazepate TRANXENE or chlordiazepoxide LIBRIUM use Block . If the test for temazepam is positive in Block then the results are considered consistent with diazepam VALIUM use Block .

Additional examples of interpretive comments are provided in the following non limiting examples below.

When Vicodin hydrocodone is prescribed and both hydrocodone and hydromorphone Dilaudid and a metabolite of hydrocodone are detected in the urine and the ratio of hydromorphone to hydrocodone is consistent with hydromorphone coming from hepatic metabolism of hydrocodone then two interpretive comments are listed as follows 

When an opiate opioid is detected in the urine that is not prescribed for example oxycodone Oxycontin and the oxymorphone to oxycodone ratio indicates that oxymorphone Opana is also being used but has not been prescribed the interpretive comments are listed as follows 

An interpretive comment will also be provided if the requisition indicates that prescription use is unknown or not provided. For example if no prescription information is provided and codeine and morphine are detected in the urine and the morphine to codeine ratio indicates that morphine came from codeine metabolism the interpretive comments would read as indicated below. Heroine is ruled out as the source of morphine since the 6 monoacetylmorphine test is negative. In addition concentrations of codeine and morphine rule out poppy seeds as the source of morphine.

A comprehensive pain management panel that includes nine 9 drugs of abuse and ten 10 opioid opiates was provided to provide the information for physicians to determine medication compliance patient safety and mitigate practice risk. The flowcharts in were used to generate patient reports of consistent or discrepant results as compared with likely opioid sources. Discussions by clinical toxicology experts with practicing physicians providing pain management services to patients indicated the misinterpretation of conventional pain management opioid opiate toxicology report data occurred frequently. The misinterpretation of opioid opiate toxicology reports put patients and physicians at risk. The unique pain management interpretation techniques were developed to provide physicians with concise accurate interpretative information based on published opioid opiate pharmacologic and metabolic information specimen analysis providing quantitative metabolite to parent drug ratios combined with or without opiate opioid prescription information provided by the ordering physician. The interpretations indicate the likely source of an opioid opiate drug s found positive on the pain management panel either that was prescribed or not prescribed and whether it is consistent or discrepant with the prescribed drug s . Prescribed drugs allegedly taken in the last three days and found to be negative on the pain management panel are flagged as discrepant. Testing for 6 monoacetylmorphine a metabolite of heroin on every urine specimen in addition to codeine morphine and a poppy seed evaluation allows a comprehensive determination for the probable source of a positive morphine. A comprehensive interpretive evaluation of ten 10 opiate opioids is provided. Other toxicology laboratories limit their evaluation to six 6 opiate opioids in their common panels. In summary the Pain Management Panel interpretation methods see e.g. are designed to save the physician time by providing a unique concise interpretive summary based on ten urine opioid opiate analysis results prescribed opioid opiates undisclosed opioids opiates and opioid opiate metabolism. The Pain Management Panel interpretive techniques indicate the likely source of opiate opioid drugs and whether they are consistent or discrepant with the prescribed opiate opioid drugs.

The drug medication interpretation flow charts can be based on opioid opiate analysis performed by liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry LC MS MS as described below. In some embodiments simultaneous identification and quantitation in urine of codeine fentanyl hydrocodone hydromorphone oxycodone oxymorphone meperidine 6 monoacetyl morphine 6 MAM morphine and norfentanyl as the free non conjugated drug is performed by LC MS MS.

The analysis of the opioid opiate drugs uses deuterium labeled internal standard analogues in batch calibrators controls and urine aliquots. Tubes containing each urine batch specimen are placed on the MICROLAB Hamilton Starlet liquid handling instrument from Hamilton Robotics Reno Nev. USA . where 1 hydrochloric acid and internal standard are added and mixed with the urine. Solid phase extraction SPE columns containing sodium bisulfite are conditioned with methanol before each sample is passed through its SPE column. The columns are washed prior to the drugs and internal standard being eluted from the SPE columns with ammoniated elution solvent. After the solvent is evaporated the residue in each tube is reconstituted with 5 acetonitrile in water. The extract is placed in autosampler vials for LC MS MS analysis.

An AGILENT 6410 Triple Quadrupole LC MS MS from Agilent Technologies Inc. Santa Clara Calif. USA with electrospray ionization positive ion mode interfaced with an Agilent 1200 series binary pump SL is programmed to select and allow the positive precursor ion of each opioid opiate drug and its respective deuterium internal standard to pass through the first quadrupole. In the second quadrupole collision induced dissociation CID is achieved to produce product ions monitored in the third quadrupole. Quantitative concentrations of the drugs are determined by calculating peak area ratios for the product ions of each drug and its deuterium internal standard.

Opiates are pharmacologically active agents derived naturally from opium the dried juice of the unripe seed pod of the opium poppy . Morphine and codeine belong to this class of natural occurring opiate alkaloids as are thebaine noscapine and papaverine. Heroin diacetyl morphine is a synthetic opiate and a more potent derivative of morphine heroin is not legally available in the United States. Opioids are generally synthetic narcotic analgesics that have varying degrees of opiate like pharmacological effects some share similarity in chemical structure with morphine. The opioid drugs detected by this test method are listed alphabetically 

Codeine is an opiate used for its analgesic antitussive and antidiarrheal properties. Codeine is a synthesis by product of illicit heroin production. Codeine is naturally found in opium and opium poppy seeds used for dietary purposes. Codeine is rapidly absorbed after oral dose with the time to peak plasma concentration estimated at one hour after ingestion. Codeine is extensively metabolized mostly to codeine glucuronide while 10 15 of a dose is excreted as morphine and norcodeine conjugates. Therefore codeine free and conjugated norcodeine and morphine free and conjugated appear in urine after codeine ingestion. Morphine is not metabolized to codeine in humans. Codeine free is detected by LC MS MS for up to 3 days after it s administered. Also see the pharmacokinetic information regarding Morphine below .

Fentanyl is an opioid analgesic with a potency about 80 times that of morphine and a short duration of efficacy. Norfentanyl is a metabolite of the drug fentanyl. Fentanyl is administered by injection as an adjunct to surgical anesthesia and with the use of transdermal patches for management of chronic pain. An oral transmucosal dosage form buccal pellets and lozenges are also available. Illicit fentanyl has been substituted for heroin sold on the black market. Fentanyl and norfentanyl are excreted in urine following fentanyl administration. Norfentanyl was detected in urine for up to 72 hours and fentanyl for less than 24 hours following a single fentanyl dose 50 to 100 ug . In chronic pain patients treated with fentanyl transdermal patches 25 to 100 ug hr urine fentanyl concentrations were less than 1080 ng mL and urine norfentanyl concentrations were less than 5730 ng mL.

Pharmacological effects of hydrocodone as an analgesic and antitussive are similar to codeine it is available for oral administration. Hydrocodone is metabolized by the liver to hydromorphone and other metabolites. Hydrocodone can be a metabolite of codeine when codeine is used in high doses following codeine administration the ratio of hydrocodone to codeine concentrations is less than 0.40 without another hydrocodone source. Dihydrocodeine metabolism has been shown to produce urine hydrocodone in very low concentrations. Some oxycodone pharmaceutical preparations have small amounts of hydrocodone as an impurity. An oral dose of hydrocodone may produce hydrocodone free for 3 days and hydromorphone for up to 4 days by LC MS MS analysis.

Hydromorphone is similar to morphine but more potent and has a high abuse liability it is available for oral injection and suppository administration. Hydromorphone can be observed in urine as a morphine metabolite after high dose morphine use hydromorphone is also a metabolite of hydrocodone. About 6 of a hydromorphone dose is eliminated as free and 36 as conjugated hydromorphone. Hydromorphone use is detected as hydromorphone free in urine by LC MS MS for up to 4 days.

Oxycodone is a semi synthetic narcotic analgesic derived from thebaine it is similar to but more effective than morphine when administered orally. Oxycodone is metabolized by the liver to oxymorphone and other metabolites. Within 24 hours approximately 60 of an oral dose of oxycodone is eliminated in urine as total oxycodone and about 14 as oxymorphone. LC MS MS can detect oxycodone free for up to 3 days after an immediate release dose preparation following a slow release dosage form oxycodone free can be detected for up to 4 days.

Oxymorphone is a semi synthetic narcotic analgesic derived from thebaine it is available for injection use as a suppository NUMORPHAN and as an oral preparation OPANA . Oxymorphone pharmaceutical material may contain 1 oxycodone as an impurity. Oxymorphone is also observed in urine as a metabolite of oxycodone use. Recent studies confirm oxymorphone is not a metabolite of morphine or hydromorphone. About 49 of an oxymorphone dose is excreted in urine mostly as conjugated oxymorphone and a smaller amount of free oxymorphone. LC MS MS can detect oxymorphone free for up to 3 days after an immediate release dose preparation and up to 4 days following a slow release dosage.

Meperidine is a synthetic opioid analgesic that has pharmacological effects similar to morphine but does not emulate the general chemical structure of opiates. Excessive doses of meperidine may cause CNS excitation tremors seizures largely due to the active metabolite normeperidine. Normeperidine has a longer plasma half life than meperidine 20 hours compared with 3 hours but half the analgesic effect. Following a single dose of meperidine normeperidine is usually not found in plasma but may accumulate with further administrations to exceed the parent drug concentration and contribute to toxicity.

About 7 of a dose of meperidine is eliminated as unchanged meperidine and about 17 as normeperidine. Under conditions of acid urine these values increase to 27 and 23 respectively while during alkaline conditions they decline to 0.6 and 3.6 respectively. The detection time of meperidine in urine after administration will be greatly influenced by urine pH.

Heroin diacetyl morphine an illicit opiate narcotic is a potent analgesic with strong addiction liability. Clandestine synthesis of heroin from morphine or naturally occurring alkaloids found in opium the dried juice of the unripe seed pod of the opium poppy may produce a product having other alkaloid contaminants including small amounts of codeine. Heroin is administered intravenously or smoked. Heroin is rapidly metabolized in tissues to 6 monoacetylmorphine and subsequently metabolized in the liver to morphine. Morphine is extensively metabolized with only 2 12 excreted in the urine as unchanged free morphine and up to 80 excreted as conjugated morphine glucuronides. Five to 14 of the morphine produced from heroin is excreted in the feces. Approximately 42 of a heroin dose is excreted as morphine 3 glucuronide over about 40 hours. Because a relatively small amount of codeine may be found in heroin as a synthesis impurity the urine of a heroin user may contain some codeine neither morphine nor heroin is metabolized to codeine in humans.

The presence of 6 MAM in urine is a specific marker for recent heroin use. 6 MAM is not present in urine from the use of codeine morphine or poppy seed ingestion. After a heroin dose 6 MAM is detected in urine for less than 3 days by LC MS MS. 6 MAM is stable in urine.

Morphine and codeine belong to the class of drugs called opiates. Other synthetic narcotic analgesics opioids have some degree of opiate pharmacological effects and share some chemical structure similarity to the opiates. Both morphine and codeine are naturally occurring alkaloids from opium the dried juice of the unripe seed pod of the opium poppy

Morphine is rapidly absorbed from oral use but has low bioavailability 0.27 due to first pass metabolism. Morphine may also be smoked or administered by injection. Morphine is extensively metabolized with only 2 12 excreted in the urine as unchanged free morphine and up to 80 excreted as conjugated metabolites glucuronides . A small amount 5 14 of an administered morphine dose is excreted in the feces. The principle metabolite of morphine in urine is morphine 3 glucuronide which is excreted to the extent of 70 of the dose in 48 hours.

Heroin after injection or smoking is rapidly metabolized to 6 mono acetylmorphine 6 MAM 6 acetylmorphine which is subsequently metabolized to morphine. Both heroin and 6 MAM disappear rapidly from the blood due to metabolism and tissue distribution while morphine levels initially rise and then decline more slowly.

The pattern of urinary excretion of heroin is similar to that of morphine unchanged morphine 7 and conjugated morphine 50 60 with only trace amounts of 6 MAM detectable in urine. The urine of a heroin user may have some codeine present because of concurrently administered codeine or because small amounts of codeine are produced in heroin illicit manufacture as a synthesis by product.

Some varieties of poppy seeds contain varying amounts of opium resin containing concentrations of morphine and codeine approximately at a 10 1 ratio. Following ingestion poppy seeds may cause detectable amounts of morphine and less codeine in the urine due to the opium resin. 6 MAM has not been found in poppy seeds or in urine after ingestion of poppy seeds.

The following is a non limiting exemplary testing protocol. Although the following example is provided it should be understood that any suitable protocol can be used. For example different volumes of materials solvents types of materials calibration standards equipment and the like may be selected by one of skill in the art without departing from the invention.

Opiate Opioid drugs are stable in urine specimens stored at ambient temperature for at least 48 hours specimens should be refrigerated when transport to the testing laboratory is delayed. The effect of urine preservatives on this assay has not been currently determined therefore preservatives may be avoided pending further testing. It is acceptable to centrifuge an aliquot of urine when the specimen displays unusually high turbidity. The standard volume for this test is 30 mL of urine 15 mL is considered a minimum acceptable volume. The Hamilton pipettes 1.0 mL of urine specimen during the extraction.

One of each vial listed below 100 ug mL 1 mL each from Cerilliant Corporation Round Rock Tex. USA catalog number noted below is needed to prepare the internal standard for the opioid opiates procedure 

Add the contents of each vial to a 1000 mL volumetric flask and add sufficient Type 1 deionized water to a final volume of 1000 mL cap and mix well. The final concentration or each drug analogue in the internal standard is 0.1 ng uL. Stable two years when stored refrigerated in labeled brown glass bottles.

Add 25 grams of sodium bisulfate from Sigma S9000 minimum 99 to 100 mL 0.1M Phosphate Buffer pH 6.0 prepared as described above. Mix well and store refrigerated stable one month. Avoid direct contact and inhalation of sodium bisulfate may cause severe irritation.

Working in the fume hood add 950 mL Type 1 water to a 1000 mL volumetric flask and then add 10 mL concentrated HCl and mix. Add sufficient Type 1 deionized water to a final volume of 1000 mL. Store at room temperature. Stable for 6 months. Caustic avoid fumes and direct contact.

Prepare under the fume hood by adding 3 mL of isopropanol and 2 mL of 28 30 ammonium hydroxide to a clean glass 50 mL volumetric flask. Mix well then add sufficient ethyl acetate to the 50 mL mark cap and mix well. Make fresh each batch stable one day at room temperature when tightly capped.

With a volumetric pipette add 5 mL HPLC Spectro grade acetonitrile from TEDIA AS 1122 into a 100 mL volumetric flask. Add sufficient high purity water to a final volume of 100 mL Use Water High Purity Solvent from Burdick Jackson Cat 365 4. Stable indefinitely when stored at room temperature.

NOTE Do not wash LC MS MS reagent bottles using detergents and do not submit them to the dish room for cleaning. Detergents are incompatible with the analytical methods. Rinse with high purity water e.g. from Honeywell Burdick Jackson Morristown N.J. USA Cat 365 4 and dry well. Ultra clean glassware for transfers of reagents into these bottles is required.

Use Formic Acid 98 100 from Honeywell Riedel de Ha n Hanover Germany Cat 33015 and only high purity water Water High Purity Solvent from Honeywell Burdick Jackson Cat 365 4 and high purity methanol Methanol High Purity Solvent from Burdick Jackson Cat 230 4 for this reagent. Work under the fume hood. Add 10 mL of formic acid 100 mL high purity methanol and 1890 mL high purity water to a clean empty 4 liter BJ water bottle for a final volume of 2000 mL mix well. Label the container. Stable indefinitely at room temperature.

Use Formic Acid 98 100 from Honeywell Riedel de Ha n Cat 33015 and HPLC Spectro grade acetonitrile from Tedia Company Inc Fairfield Ohio USA AS 1122 for this reagent. Work under the fume hood. Add 20 mL of formic acid 4 liters of high purity acetonitrile for a final volume of 4000 mL mix well. Label the container. Stable indefinitely at room temperature.

Use Methanol High Purity Solvent from Burdick Jackson Cat 230 4 Isopropanol from Fisher Scientific Pittsburgh Pa. USA Cat UN1219 and Water High Purity Solvent from Burdick Jackson Cat 365 4 for this reagent. Work under the fume hood. Add 2000 mL of high purity methanol and 1000 mL of isopropanol and 1000 mL high purity water to a clean 4000 mL glass container to a final volume of 4000 mL and mix well. Stable indefinitely at room temperature.

Use only high purity water Water High Purity Solvent from Honeywell Burdick Jackson Cat 365 4 for this reagent.

Volumetrically pipette 5 mL of Solution A and 5 mL of Solution B to a 50 mL volumetric flask. Add sufficient type I deionized water to a final volume of 50 mL parafilm and mix well. Aliquot 4.5 mL into labeled tubes and freeze. Stable one year when frozen. The final concentrations of morphine codeine hydrocodone oxycodone hydromorphone and oxymorphone are 10 000 ng mL. Note This calibrator is not used for calibrating 6 MAM fentanyl meperidine and norfentanyl at 10 000 ngmL the concentration of 6 MAM fentanyl meperidine and norfentanyl is 2000 ng mL each.

Volumetrically pipette 1 mL of Solution A and 5 mL of Solution B to a 50 mL volumetric flask. Add sufficient type I deionized water to a final volume of 50 mL parafilm and mix well. Aliquot 4.5 mL into labeled tubes and freeze. Stable one year when frozen. The final concentration of morphine codeine hydrocodone oxycodone hydromorphone oxymorphone meperidine 6 MAM fentanyl and norfentanyl is 2000 ng mL each.

Using a volumetric pipette add 5.0 mL of the Opioid Calibrator 2000 ng mL into a 100 mL volumetric flask. Add sufficient type I deionized water to a final volume of 100 mL parafilm and mix well. Aliquot 4.5 mL into labeled tubes and freeze. Stable one year when frozen. The final concentration of morphine codeine hydrocodone oxycodone hydromorphone oxymorphone meperidine 6 MAM fentanyl and norfentanyl is 100 ng mL each.

Using a volumetric pipette add 25 mL of the Opioid Calibrator 100 ng mL into a 50 mL volumetric flask. Add sufficient type I deionized water to a final volume of 50 mL parafilm and mix well. Aliquot 4.5 mL into labeled tubes and freeze. Stable one year when frozen. The final concentration of morphine codeine hydrocodone oxycodone hydromorphone oxymorphone meperidine 6 MAM fentanyl and norfentanyl is 50 ng mL each.

Using a volumetric pipette add 0.5 mL of the Opioid Calibrator 2000 ng mL into a 200 mL volumetric flask. Add sufficient type I deionized water to a final volume of 200 mL parafilm and mix well. Aliquot 4.5 mL into labeled tubes and freeze. Stable one year when frozen. The final concentration of morphine codeine hydrocodone oxycodone hydromorphone oxymorphone meperidine 6 MAM fentanyl and norfentanyl is 5 ng mL each.

Using a volumetric pipette add 25 mL of the Opioid Calibrator 5 ng mL into a 50 mL volumetric flask. Add sufficient type I deionized water to a final volume of 50 mL parafilm and mix well. Aliquot 4.5 mL into labeled tubes and freeze. Stable one year when frozen. The final concentration of morphine codeine hydrocodone oxycodone hydromorphone oxymorphone meperidine 6 MAM fentanyl and norfentanyl is 2.5 ng mL each.

Using a volumetric pipette add 10 mL of the Opioid Calibrator 5 ng mL into a 50 mL volumetric flask. Add sufficient type I deionized water to a final volume of 50 mL parafilm and mix well. Aliquot 4.5 mL into labeled tubes and freeze. Stable one year when frozen. The final concentration of morphine codeine hydrocodone oxycodone hydromorphone oxymorphone meperidine 6 MAM fentanyl and norfentanyl is 1.0 ng mL each.

Quality control mean values and range limits can be established prior to the use of the following materials.

A 1 10 dilution of the laboratory s High Control Detectabuse Custom Liquid Control from Biochemical Diagnostics is used. Using a volumetric pipette add 5.0 mL of the High Control urine into a 50 mL volumetric flask. Add sufficient certified negative urine to a final volume of 50 mL parafilm and mix well. The target concentration is 6.3 ng mL for morphine codeine hydrocodone oxycodone hydromorphone oxymorphone meperidine and 6 MAM the target concentration is 2.5 ng mL for fentanyl and norfentanyl. See current quality control chart for validated mean range lot and expiration date of each drug or drug metabolite. The control is stable for one month when refrigerated.

Use Detectabuse Custom Liquid Control from Biochemical Diagnostics without further dilution. The target concentration is 62.5 ng mL for morphine codeine hydrocodone oxycodone hydromorphone oxymorphone meperidine and 6 MAM the target concentration is 25 ng mL for fentanyl and norfentanyl. See current quality control chart for validated mean range lot and expiration date of each drug or drug metabolite. The control is stored frozen until expiration date listed on the label. Once thawed the control is stable for one month when refrigerated.

The Hamilton MICROLAB Starlet instrument is a robotic workstation that provides automated liquid handling functions including gravity flow solid phase extraction of urine specimens. The Hamilton MICROLAB Starlet aspirates and dispenses the sample and reagents using monitored air displacement quantitative pipette technologies with disposable pipette tips liquid level sensing and barcode specimen accession number tracking. The sample extracts are subsequently tested using LC MS MS analysis.

A urine sample is partially purified by applying the sample to a cation exchange column washing the column with an aqueous solution and then eluting the partially purified sample from the column with an ammoniated organic solvent.

The following are exemplary conditions for liquid chromatography and mass spectrometry according to some embodiments of the present invention.

Although embodiments according to the present invention are described herein with respect to urine samples it should be understood that other body fluids can be used including blood serum plasma saliva perspiration meconium and or homogenized cord tissue. Although embodiments according to the present invention are described herein as identifying and interpreting drug tests when prescription information is known or unknown in a clinical setting it should be understood that embodiments according to the present invention can be used in a forensic setting a work place or school drug testing setting or other suitable areas.

The foregoing is illustrative of the present invention and is not to be construed as limiting thereof. Although a few exemplary embodiments of this invention have been described those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that many modifications are possible in the exemplary embodiments without materially departing from the novel teachings and advantages of this invention. Accordingly all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of this invention as defined in the claims. Therefore it is to be understood that the foregoing is illustrative of the present invention and is not to be construed as limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications to the disclosed embodiments as well as other embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. The invention is defined by the following claims with equivalents of the claims to be included therein.

