---

title: High-gain wide bandgap darlington transistors and related methods of fabrication
abstract: A packaged power electronic device includes a wide bandgap bipolar driver transistor having a base, a collector, and an emitter terminal, and a wide bandgap bipolar output transistor having a base, a collector, and an emitter terminal. The collector terminal of the output transistor is coupled to the collector terminal of the driver transistor, and the base terminal of the output transistor is coupled to the emitter terminal of the driver transistor to provide a Darlington pair. An area of the output transistor is at least 3 times greater than an area of the driver transistor in plan view. For example, an area ratio of the output transistor to the driver transistor may be between about 3:1 to about 5:1. Related devices and methods of fabrication are also discussed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09478537&OS=09478537&RS=09478537
owner: Cree, Inc.
number: 09478537
owner_city: Durham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20090715
---
The present invention was developed with Government support under Army Research Laboratory Contract No. W911NF 04 2 0021. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

This invention relates to microelectronic devices and more particularly to power transistors and related fabrication methods.

Power devices are widely used to carry large currents and support high voltages. For example circuits in motor drives appliance controls robotics lighting ballasts and other applications often require semiconductor switching devices that can carry large currents and support high blocking voltages. One type of power device is the bipolar junction transistor BJT . The bipolar junction transistor has been the switching device of choice for many high power applications because of its ability to handle relatively large current densities and support relatively high blocking voltages.

A BJT typically includes a semiconductor material having two opposing p n junctions in close proximity to one another. Thus BJTs may be referred to as n p n or p n p transistors. In operation charge carriers enter a region of the semiconductor material of a first conductivity type adjacent one of the p n junctions which is called the emitter. Most of the charge carriers exit the device from a region of the semiconductor material of the first conductivity type adjacent the other p n junction which is called the collector. A third region of the semiconductor material known as the base is positioned between the collector and the emitter and has a conductivity type that is opposite the conductivity type of the collector and the emitter. The two p n junctions of the BJT are formed where the collector meets the base and where the base meets the emitter.

BJTs are current controlled devices in that a BJT is turned on i.e. it is biased so that current flows from the emitter to the collector by flowing a current through the base of the transistor. When current is injected into or extracted from the base depending upon whether the BJT is n p n or p n p the flow of charge carriers i.e. electrons or holes which can move from the emitter to the collector may be affected. By flowing a small current through the base of a BJT a proportionally larger current passes from the emitter to the collector. Typically a BJT may require a relatively large base current e.g. one fifth to one tenth of the collector current to maintain the device in its on state. As high power BJTs have large collector currents they also typically have significant base current demands. Relatively complex external drive circuits may be required to supply the relatively large base currents that can be required by high power BJTs. These drive circuits are used to selectively provide a current to the base of the BJT that switches the transistor between its on and off states. Structural and operational details of BJTs are discussed in by B. Streetman 2nd edition 1980 chapter 7 .

The material that makes up a device can contribute to the operability and usefulness of the device. For example conventional BJTs are typically formed of silicon Si but can also include gallium arsenide GaAs and indium phosphide InP . Silicon carbide SiC has also been used as a material for BJTs. SiC has potentially advantageous semiconductor characteristics for example a wide bandgap high electric field breakdown strength high thermal conductivity high melting point and high saturated electron drift velocity. Thus relative to devices formed in other semiconductor materials for example Si electronic devices formed in SiC may have the capability of operating at higher temperatures at high power densities at higher speeds at higher power levels and or under high radiation densities. SiC BJTs are discussed for example in U.S. Pat. No. 4 945 394 to Palmour et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 6 218 254 to Singh et al.

Due to device properties such as relatively low on resistance at relatively high current density positive temperature coefficient PTC for the on resistance and or relatively fast switching speeds SiC power bipolar junction transistors BJTs may be desirable for use in high power systems. SiC BJTs may have the potential to operate at high temperatures and or relatively harsh environments for example due to the absence of a gate oxide. However SiC BJTs typically require a continuous base drive current. Also while SiC BJTs may provide a relatively high current gain the open base breakdown voltage may be significantly reduced. The current gain of SiC BJTs may also be limited by recombination in the base the base emitter space charge region and or surface recombination.

According to some embodiments of the present invention a packaged electronic device includes a wide bandgap bipolar driver transistor having a base terminal a collector terminal and an emitter terminal and a wide bandgap bipolar output transistor having a base terminal a collector terminal and an emitter terminal. The collector terminal of the output transistor is coupled to the collector terminal of the driver transistor and the base terminal of the output transistor is coupled to the emitter terminal of the driver transistor to provide a Darlington pair. An area of the output transistor is at least about 3 times greater than an area of the driver transistor in plan view.

In some embodiments an area ratio of the output transistor to the driver transistor may be between about 3 1 to about 5 1. For example in some embodiments the area ratio of the output transistor to the driver transistor may be about 5 1. A blocking voltage of the device may be greater than about 5 kilovolts kV .

In some embodiments the device may further include a wide bandgap bipolar avalanche transistor having a base terminal coupled to the base terminal of the output transistor a collector terminal a collector terminal coupled to the collector terminal of the output transistor and an emitter terminal coupled to the emitter terminal of the output transistor.

In some embodiments the packaged power electronic device may include a substrate of a first conductivity type. The substrate may include a common collector terminal thereon that provides the collector terminals of the driver and output transistors. A drift layer of the first conductivity type is provided on the substrate opposite the common collector terminal. The drift layer may have a lower carrier concentration than that of the substrate. A base layer of a second conductivity type opposite the first conductivity type is provided on the drift layer opposite the substrate. The base layer may include a trench therein that defines first and second electrically isolated mesas. The first mesa may include the base terminal of the driver transistor thereon and the second mesa may include the base terminal of the output transistor thereon. An emitter layer of the first conductivity type is provided on the base layer opposite the drift layer. The emitter layer may include first and second electrically isolated portions. The first portion may include the emitter terminal of the driver transistor thereon and the second portion may include the emitter terminal of the output transistor thereon.

In some embodiments the trench may separate the first and second mesas of the base layer by a distance of about 4 m or less to electrically isolate the driver transistor and the output transistor at voltages of about 10 kV or less.

In some embodiments the trench may surround a periphery of the driver transistor. A junction termination extension region of the second conductivity type may surround a periphery of the output transistor.

In some embodiments the drift layer may include a first region of the second conductivity type at a bottom of the trench adjacent the first mesa of the base layer and a second region of the second conductivity type at the bottom of the trench adjacent the second mesa of the base layer.

In some embodiments the trench may not extend completely through the base layer. A region of the first conductivity type may be provided in the base layer at a bottom of the trench between the first and second mesas. The region may have a dopant concentration that is sufficient to electrically isolate the driver transistor and the output transistor from one another.

In some embodiments a region of the first conductivity type may be provided in the second mesa of the base layer adjacent to the base terminal of the output transistor. The region of the first conductivity type may be electrically connected to the emitter terminal of the output transistor on the second portion of the emitter layer. A portion of the base layer between the region of the first conductivity type therein and the drift layer may be thinner than a portion of the base layer between the second portion of the emitter layer and the drift layer to provide a non destructive avalanche current path within an active area of the device.

In some embodiments the driver and output transistors may be silicon carbide SiC devices and the packaged power electronic device may have a current gain of greater than about 300 at room temperature. The current gain of the packaged power electronic device may increase as collector current density of the output transistor increases and the current gain of the packaged power electronic device may decrease as operating temperature of the device increases.

In some embodiments the driver transistor may be a second driver transistor and the device may further include a first driver transistor having a base terminal a collector terminal and an emitter terminal. The emitter terminal of the first driver transistor may be coupled to the base terminal of the second driver transistor and the collector terminal of the first driver transistor may be coupled to the collector terminals of the second driver transistor and the output transistor. The first driver transistor the second driver transistor and the output transistor may be silicon carbide SiC bipolar junction transistors and the device may have a current gain of greater than about 10 000.

According to further embodiments of the present invention a method of fabricating a packaged power electronic device includes providing a wide bandgap bipolar driver transistor having a base terminal a collector terminal and an emitter terminal on a substrate and providing a wide bandgap bipolar output transistor having a base terminal a collector terminal and an emitter terminal on the substrate. The collector terminal of the output transistor is coupled to the collector terminal of the driver transistor and the base terminal of the output transistor is coupled to the emitter terminal of the driver transistor to provide a Darlington pair. In plan view an area of the output transistor is at least 3 times greater than an area of the driver transistor.

In some embodiments an area ratio of the output transistor to the driver transistor may be between about 3 1 to about 5 1. For example in some embodiments the area ratio of the output transistor to the driver transistor may be about 5 1. A blocking voltage of the device may be greater than about 5 kilovolts kV .

In some embodiments the substrate may be of a first conductivity type and may include a common collector terminal thereon that provides the collector terminals of the driver and output transistors. A drift layer of the first conductivity type may be provided on the substrate opposite the common collector terminal. The drift layer may have a lower carrier concentration than that of the substrate. A base layer of a second conductivity type opposite the first conductivity type may be provided on the drift layer opposite the substrate. The base layer may have a trench therein that defines first and second electrically isolated mesas. The first mesa may include the base terminal of the driver transistor thereon and the second mesa may include the base terminal of the output transistor thereon. An emitter layer of the first conductivity type may be provided on the base layer opposite the drift layer. The emitter layer may include first and second electrically isolated portions. The first portion may include the emitter terminal of the driver transistor thereon and the second portion may include the emitter terminal of the output transistor thereon.

In some embodiments the substrate may be a 4H SiC substrate cut at about 8 degrees off axis. The drift layer the base layer and the emitter layer may be epitaxially grown on the substrate. The drift layer of the first conductivity type may be grown on the substrate and the drift layer may have dopant concentration of about 5 10cm. The base layer of the second conductivity type may be grown on the drift layer and the base layer may have a dopant concentration of about 6 10cm.

In some embodiments the emitter terminals may be ohmic nickel contacts and the base terminals may be ohmic aluminum titanium contacts.

In some embodiments the base layer may be formed on the drift layer the emitter layer may be formed on the base layer opposite the drift layer and the emitter layer may be etched to define the first and second electrically isolated portions thereof and to expose a portion of the base layer. The exposed portion of the base layer may be etched to provide the trench therein that defines the first and second electrically isolated mesas thereof.

In some embodiments the trench may surround a periphery of the driver transistor. A junction termination extension region of the second conductivity type may be provided surrounding a periphery of the output transistor.

In some embodiments a first region of the second conductivity type may be formed in the drift layer at a bottom of the trench adjacent the first mesa of the base layer and a second region of the second conductivity type may be formed in the drift layer at the bottom of the trench adjacent the second mesa of the base layer.

In some embodiments the trench may not extend completely through the base layer. A region of the first conductivity type may be formed in the base layer at a bottom of the trench between the first and second mesas. The region may have a dopant concentration that is sufficient to electrically isolate the driver transistor and the output transistor from one another.

In some embodiments regions of the second conductivity type may be implanted into the first and second mesas of base layer at edges thereof. The implanted regions may have a greater dopant concentration than other regions of the base layer. The base terminal of the driver transistor may be provided on the implanted region of the first mesa and the base terminal of the output transistor may be provided on the implanted region of the second mesa. A width of the implanted regions of the second conductivity type in the base layer may be less than about half of a width of the first or second portions of the emitter layer.

In some embodiments a region of the first conductivity type may be formed in the second mesa of the base layer adjacent to the base terminal of the output transistor. The region of the first conductivity type may be electrically connected to the emitter terminal of the output transistor on the second portion of the emitter layer. A distance between the region of the first conductivity type and the drift layer may be less than a distance between the second portion of the emitter layer and the drift layer to provide a non destructive avalanche current path within an active area of the device.

In some embodiments the driver transistor may be a second driver transistor and a first driver transistor having a base terminal a collector terminal and an emitter terminal may be provided on the substrate adjacent thereto. The emitter terminal of the first driver transistor may be coupled to the base terminal of the second driver transistor and the collector terminal of the first driver transistor may be coupled to the collector terminals of the second driver transistor and the output transistor.

According to still further embodiments of the present invention a wide bandgap Darlington transistor includes a first silicon carbide SiC bipolar junction transistor BJT having a collector an emitter and a base and a second SiC BJT having a collector that is coupled to the collector of the first SiC BJT and an emitter that is coupled to the base of the first SiC BJT and configured to provide a current thereto. An area ratio of the first SiC BJT to the second SiC BJT is between about 3 1 to about 5 1.

In some embodiments the Darlington transistor may further include a third SiC BJT having a collector an emitter and a base connected to the collector the emitter and the base respectively of the first SiC BJT.

In some embodiments the Darlington transistor may further include a third SiC BJT having a collector that is coupled to the collector of the first SiC BJT an emitter that is coupled to a base of the second SiC BJT and configured to provide a current thereto and a base that is configured to be coupled to an external drive circuit.

The invention is described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which embodiments of the invention are shown. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. In the drawings the size and relative sizes of layers and regions may be exaggerated for clarity.

It will be understood that when an element or layer is referred to as being on connected to or coupled to another element or layer it can be directly on connected or coupled to the other element or layer or intervening elements or layers may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly on directly connected to or directly coupled to another element or layer there are no intervening elements or layers present. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

It will be understood that although the terms first and second are used herein to describe various regions layers and or sections these regions layers and or sections should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one region layer or section from another region layer or section. Thus a first region layer or section discussed below could be termed a second region layer or section and similarly a second region layer or section may be termed a first region layer or section without departing from the scope of the present invention.

Furthermore relative terms such as lower or bottom and upper or top may be used herein to describe one element s relationship to another element as illustrated in the Figures. It will be understood that relative terms are intended to encompass different orientations of the device in addition to the orientation depicted in the Figures. For example if the device in the Figures is turned over elements described as being on the lower side of other elements would then be oriented on upper sides of the other elements. The exemplary term lower can therefore encompass both an orientation of lower and upper depending of the particular orientation of the figure. Similarly if the device in one of the figures is turned over elements described as below or beneath other elements would then be oriented above the other elements. The exemplary terms below or beneath can therefore encompass both an orientation of above and below.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises comprising includes and or including when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

Embodiments of the invention are described herein with reference to cross sectional illustrations that are schematic illustrations of idealized embodiments of the invention. As such variations from the shapes of the illustrations as a result for example of manufacturing techniques and or tolerances are to be expected. Thus embodiments of the invention should not be construed as limited to the particular shapes of regions illustrated herein but are to include deviations in shapes that result for example from manufacturing. For example a region illustrated or described as a rectangle may have rounded or curved features due to normal manufacturing tolerances. Thus the regions illustrated in the figures are schematic in nature and their shapes are not intended to illustrate the precise shape of a region of a device and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. It will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of this disclosure and the relevant art and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

Further improvement in the current gain of SiC BJTs can be achieved by utilizing two or more SiC BJTs connected to provide a Darlington pair also referred to herein as a Darlington transistor. SiC Darlington transistors may provide a greater current gain but with an increased forward voltage drop for example greater than about 2.7 V as compared to a SiC BJT which may make SiC Darlington transistors less attractive for low voltage applications e.g. less than about 5 kV . However for high voltage applications for example greater than about 5 10 kV where transistors may typically be operated at higher forward voltages the offset or increased forward voltage drop of a SiC Darlington transistor may be generally acceptable.

Accordingly some embodiments of the present invention provide a 10 kV 4H SiC bipolar Darlington transistor that has a forward voltage drop similar to that of a 10 kV SiC BJT but with a higher forced current gain for example a current gain of about 336 in some embodiments at room temperature. As such the current gain of an SiC bipolar Darlington transistor according to some embodiments of the present invention may be more than 10 times higher than that of a 10 kV SiC BJT. The temperature dependence of the on resistance and the current gain for Darlington transistors according to some embodiments of the present invention are also described in greater detail below.

As shown in according to some embodiments of the present invention the 10 kV SiC Darlington transistor may be implemented as a monolithic structure that is formed on a bulk single crystal n type 4H SiC substrate . The right hand side of illustrates a cross sectional view of the output BJT while the left hand side of illustrates a cross sectional view of the driver BJT . Both BJTs and may have a cell pitch of 25 m. The layers and of the BJTs and may be grown on the n type 4H SiC substrate and all of the layers may be grown in one epitaxial run. In some embodiments the substrate may be cut about 8 degrees off axis prior to growth of the layers and or thereon. As used herein the term off axis refers to a tilt of the substrate surface relative to another surface or plane.

In particular a layer of n type conductivity SiC may be provided on the upper surface of the substrate to form an n drift layer . The carrier concentration of the substrate is higher than the carrier concentration of the n drift layer . Thus the SiC substrate may be referred to as an n substrate. The n type drift layer may be about 128 m thick and may have a dopant concentration of for example about 5.3 10cm. In contrast the dopant concentration of the drift layer in conventional 10 kV devices may be on the order of about 5 10cmor more. A p type base layer is provided on the n drift layer . The p type base layer may be for example epitaxially grown following the growth of the n drift layer and may comprise a p type conductivity SiC layer having a thickness of about 0.5 m. The p type base layer may be doped to a concentration of for example about 6 10cm and may include p regions therein having a higher dopant concentration for the base contact. An n SiC emitter layer is provided on the p type base layer . The n emitter layer may be about 2 m thick and may be heavily doped with for example nitrogen. With regard to the carrier concentrations the p and n conductivity type regions and epitaxial layers described above may be as heavily doped as possible without causing excessive fabrication defects. Suitable dopants for producing the p type regions include aluminum boron or gallium. Suitable dopants for producing the n type regions include nitrogen and phosphorus.

Still referring to the n emitter layer may be patterned for example using reactive ion etching RIE to form the emitter fingers and of the driver BJT and the output BJT respectively. The widths of the emitter fingers and the p regions may be about 10 micrometers m and about 5 m respectively. The base layer may also be patterned to provide a trench that electrically isolates the driver BJT and the output BJT . In particular the base layer may be etched to form electrically isolated mesas and with a spacing or gap of about 4 m or less such that both BJTs and are shielded from each other in the OFF state. In some embodiments additional p regions may be implanted or otherwise provided in the n type drift layer at a base or bottom of the trench adjacent each of the mesas and as shown in to provide improved isolation between the driver BJT and the output BJT thereby increasing the blocking voltage of the Darlington transistor . The p regions may be spaced apart by a distance of about 2 3 m or less. In other embodiments as shown in the base layer may not be completely etched through to define the trench therein and a lightly doped n type region may be implanted or otherwise provided in the base layer at a bottom of the trench between the mesas and to provide isolation between the driver BJT and the output BJT of the Darlington transistor .

As shown in a 900 m wide p type junction termination extension JTE is implemented around the periphery of the active area of the output BJT to reduce the electric field crowding under reverse bias. Surface passivation may be performed by a wet thermal oxidation for about 2 hours at greater than about 1000 C. followed by a one hour argon Ar annealing and then nitrogen oxygen NO re annealing at about 1175 C. for about three hours. After thermal oxidation 1 m silicon dioxide and 500 nm silicon nitride may be deposited by plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition PECVD to protect the thermal passivation layer.

Referring again to ohmic contacts are formed on the n silicon carbide emitter fingers and to define the emitter terminals and for the driver and output BJTs and respectively. Ohmic contacts are also formed on the p regions of the base layer to define the base terminals and for the driver and output BJTs and respectively. For example after patterning the field oxide layer provided by the PECVD process the ohmic contacts may be formed on the emitter layer and the base layer by sintering nickel Ni and aluminum titanium Al Ti films respectively. Two metal systems with relatively thick titanium gold layers may be used. For example the first metallization may connect the base regions through a bus while the second metallization may connect the interdigitized emitter fingers . An ohmic contact is further formed on the lower surface of the substrate to provide a collector terminal for both the driver BJT and the output BJT .

Accordingly as shown on the left hand side of the n type substrate the n type drift layer the p type mesa and the n type emitter finger define the driver BJT . Likewise as shown on the right hand side of the n type substrate the n type drift layer the p type mesa and the n type emitter finger define the output BJT . The ohmic contact on n substrate opposite the drift layer provides the collector terminals for both the driver BIT and the output BJT as well as the collector terminal of the 10 kV SiC Darlington transistor . A conductive line electrically connects the base terminals of the output BJT to the emitter terminal of the driver BJT . The contact on the p region of the base layer provides the base terminal of the 10 kV SiC Darlington transistor and the contact on the emitter finger provides the emitter terminal of the 10 kV SiC Darlington transistor .

The area ratio of the output BJT as compared to the driver BJT may affect the current gain of Darlington transistors according to some embodiments of the present invention. As used herein the term area ratio refers to the relative footprint of the output transistor on a wafer or substrate as compared to that of the driver transistor in plan view. For example a comparatively large driver BJT may provide a higher current gain at lower current densities but the gain may be sharply reduced at higher current densities. Some embodiments of the present invention provide a SiC Darlington transistor where the area or footprint of the output BIT is many times greater than that of the driver BJT . For example in some embodiments the area ratio of the output BJT to the driver BJT may be approximately 5 1 in other embodiments the area ratio of the output BJT to the driver BJT may be approximately 4 1 and in still other embodiments the area ratio of the output BJT to the driver BJT may be approximately 3 1. However embodiments of the present invention may include output to driver transistor area ratios within a range of about 3 1 to about 5 1 which may be critical to providing the higher current gains described herein. In particular the current gain of a Darlington transistor whose constituent output and driver transistors have an output to driver transistor area ratio of between about 3 1 to about 5 1 may provide a greater current gain than a Darlington pair with an output to driver transistor area ratio of greater than about 5 1 as well as a greater current gain than a Darlington pair with an output to driver transistor area ratio of less than about 3 1. Thus in order to provide higher current gain and reduce the required base current according to some embodiments of the present invention the output to driver transistor area ratio should be within the critical ranges described herein.

Referring again to the Darlington die may have a chip size of about 4.2 mm by about 4.2 mm with an active area of about 3.7 mm including the area occupied by both the output BJTs on the die and the driver BJTs on the die . SiC BJTs with a similar chip size were also fabricated in conjunction with the SiC Darlington transistor on the same wafer for purposes of comparison as described below with reference to the experimental results illustrated in the graphs of .

Still referring to SiC Darlington transistors according to some embodiments of the present invention provide a higher current gain than a single SiC BJT. In particular power SiC Darlington transistors according to some embodiments of the present invention may be operated in the saturation or the quasi saturation region where the forward drop and hence the conduction losses may be lower. The current gain under these operation conditions is typically referred to as the forced current gain . The forced current gain may be approximately equal to the product of the driver transistor current gain and the output transistor current gain e.g. where the driver transistor operates in its active region and where the output transistor operates in its saturation or quasi saturation region. As used herein the current gain of the driver and output transistors refers to the ratio of their respective collector currents I to their respective base currents I . In other words I I and I I. The forced current gain of a Darlington transistor according to some embodiments of the present invention may be approximately equal to I I.

As shown in Darlington transistors according to some embodiments of the present invention may have a forced current gain of about 336 and a base current Iof about 4 mA at power dissipation density of about 200 W cm as compared to a forced current gain of about 30 for a SiC BJT under similar conditions. The gain could be even higher and higher collector current levels when both driver and output BJTs of the Darlington transistor according to some embodiments of the present invention operate in the active region. For example a forced current gain of about 1100 was measured on Darlington transistor according to some embodiments of the present invention at a collector current density of about 120 A cm as compared to a forced current gain of about 43 for a SiC BJT under similar conditions. Accordingly Darlington transistors according to some embodiments of the present invention provide a forced current gain many times that of a conventional SiC BJT. As such Darlington transistors according to some embodiments of the present invention may be operated with a reduced base current as compared to a single BJT in high voltage applications which may reduce power consumption of the driver circuit.

The blocking characteristics of SiC Darlington transistors according to some embodiments of the present invention are also shown in . As used herein a blocking voltage refers to the voltage that may be applied across the collector and the emitter of a transistor when the transistor is in its off state without significant leakage current flowing through collector and the emitter. The breakdown voltage of a transistor refers to the voltage applied across collector and the emitter of the transistor in its off state at which significant leakage current starts to flow. In particular the open emitter blocking voltage BV for a Darlington transistor according to some embodiments of the present invention was measured to be about 10 kV at a leakage current of less than about 1 mA cm. The open base blocking voltage BV for a Darlington transistor according to some embodiments of the present invention was less than about 9.5 kV at the same leakage current. It is noted that Darlington transistors according to some embodiments of the present invention may have a reverse blocking voltage that is about 2 kV lower than a comparable BJT fabricated on the same or similar wafer with a similar die size. However the structures of may provide improved isolation between the driver BJT and the output BJT due to the implanted p type regions and n type regions therein respectively which may increase the blocking voltage in some embodiments.

As shown in the SiC Darlington transistor includes a SiC NPN driver BJT Q connected to a SiC NPN output BJT Q in a manner similar to that described above with reference to . A third avalanche SiC BJT Q having a base an emitter and a collector is electrically connected in parallel to the output SiC BJT Q . This avalanche BJT Q provides a current path for avalanche currents in the event of device breakdown.

As described in detail above some embodiments of the present invention may provide a 10 kV 4H SiC two stage Darlington transistor with a forced current gain of about 336 at room temperature i.e. about 25 C. which may be reduced to a current gain of about 135 at a temperature of about 200 C. By way of comparison a single SiC BJT may provide a forced current gain of about 30 at room temperature with a similar forward voltage drop. Thus two stage SiC Darlington transistors according to some embodiments of the present invention may have a significantly higher current gain as compared to a single SiC BJT 336 vs. 30 with no penalty in the forward voltage drop which may reduce power consumption under similar conditions. The specific on resistance of two stage SiC Darlington transistors according to some embodiments of the present invention may be about 140 m cmat room temperature and may increase at elevated temperatures. Two stage SiC Darlington transistors according to some embodiments of the present invention may also exhibit an open emitter blocking voltage BV of about 9.5 kV and an open base blocking voltage BV of about 10 kV at a leakage current density of less than about 1 mA cm.

The layers and and or fabrication of the three stage SiC Darlington transistor may be similar to those described above with reference to . As such the n emitter layer may be patterned for example using reactive ion etching RIE to form the emitter fingers and of the BJTs A B and respectively. The widths of the emitter fingers and the p regions may be about 10 micrometers m and about 5 m respectively. The base layer may also be patterned to provide a trenches A and B. The trench A electrically isolates the first driver BJT A from the second driver BJT B while the trench B electrically isolates the second driver BJT B from the output BJT . In particular the base layer may be etched to form electrically isolated mesas and with a spacing or gap of about 4 m or less such that all three BJTs A B and are shielded from one another in the OFF state. Although not shown in some embodiments additional p regions may be implanted or otherwise provided in the n type drift layer at a base or bottom of the trenches A and B to provide improved device isolation as similarly shown in . In other embodiments as similarly shown in the base layer may not be completely etched through to define the trenches A and B therein and a lightly doped n type region may be provided in the base layer at a bottom of the trenches A and B between the mesas and to provide improved device isolation.

Ohmic contracts may also be formed on the emitter fingers and to define the emitter terminals Ae Be and for the devices as well as on the p regions of the base layer to define the base terminals Ab Bb and for the devices. An ohmic contact is further formed on the lower surface of the substrate to provide a collector terminal Ac Bc for all three BJTs A B and as well as the collector terminal of the 10 kV SiC Darlington transistor . A first conductive line A electrically connects the emitter terminal Ae to the base terminal Bb of the second driver transistor B and a second conductive line B electrically connects the emitter terminal Be of the second driver transistor B to the base terminal of the output BJT . The contact Ab on the p region of the base layer provides the base terminal of the 10 kV SiC Darlington transistor and the contact on the emitter finger provides the emitter terminal of the 10 kV SiC Darlington transistor .

Accordingly relatively high voltage for example greater than about 10 kV SiC Darlington transistors according to some embodiments of the present invention may provide a forward voltage drop similar to that of SiC BJTs but may exhibit a much higher current gain than SiC BJTs allowing for a reduced base current which may reduce the power consumption of the driver circuit. Thus Darlington transistors according to some embodiments of the present invention may be attractive for high power high temperature applications such as power switching devices and or sensors.

Embodiments of the present invention as described above with reference to can be achieved by monolithic integration or a hybrid combination of the wide bandgap bipolar transistors that provide the Darlington pairs described herein. As used herein a hybrid device may refer to a combination of two discrete bipolar transistors for example in a cascade configuration. A monolithic device may refer to a device where both the bipolar transistors are fabricated in the same semiconductor chip and or substrate. A packaged power device according to some embodiments of the present invention may include both monolithic and hybrid combinations of the bipolar transistors described herein.

While the above embodiments are described with reference to particular figures it is to be understood that some embodiments of the present invention may include additional and or intervening layers structures or elements and or particular layers structures or elements may be deleted. More generally the foregoing is illustrative of the present invention and is not to be construed as limiting thereof. Although a few exemplary embodiments of this invention have been described those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that many modifications are possible in the exemplary embodiments without materially departing from the novel teachings and advantages of this invention. Accordingly all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of this invention as defined in the claims. Therefore it is to be understood that the foregoing is illustrative of the present invention and is not to be construed as limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications to the disclosed embodiments as well as other embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. The invention is defined by the following claims with equivalents of the claims to be included therein.

