---

title: Bicyclic heterocycles as MEK kinase inhibitors
abstract: 

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08841462&OS=08841462&RS=08841462
owner: 
number: 08841462
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20090701
---
This application is made under 35 US 371 based on International Application PCT US2009 049453 filed on Jul. 1 2009 and claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional application No. 61 077 426 filed Jul. 1 2008 both of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The invention relates to bicyclic heterocycles of formulae I and II with anti cancer activity and more specifically with MEK kinase inhibitory activity. The invention provides compositions and methods useful for inhibiting abnormal cell growth treating hyperproliferative disorders or treating inflammatory diseases in a mammal. The invention also relates to methods of using the compounds for in vitro in situ and in vivo diagnosis or treatment of mammalian cells or associated pathological conditions.

In the quest to understand how Ras transmits extracellular growth signals the MAP mitogen activated protein kinase MAPK pathway has emerged as the crucial route between membrane bound Ras and the nucleus. The MAPK pathway encompasses a cascade of phosphorylation events involving three key kinases namely Raf MEK MAP kinase kinase and ERK MAP kinase . Active GTP bound Ras results in the activation and indirect phosphorylation of Raf kinase. Raf then phosphorylates MEK1 and 2 on two serine residues S218 and S222 for MEK1 and S222 and S226 for MEK2 Ahn et al. 2001 332 417 431 . Activated MEK then phosphorylates its only known substrates the MAP kinases ERK1 and 2. ERK phosphorylation by MEK occurs on Y204 and T202 for ERK1 and Y185 and T183 for ERK2 Ahn et al. 2001 332 417 431 . Phosphorylated ERK dimerizes and then translocates to the nucleus where it accumulates Khokhlatchev et al. 1998 93 605 615 . In the nucleus ERK is involved in several important cellular functions including but not limited to nuclear transport signal transduction DNA repair nucleosome assembly and translocation and mRNA processing and translation Ahn et al. Molecular Cell 2000 6 1343 1354 . Overall treatment of cells with growth factors leads to the activation of ERK1 and 2 which results in proliferation and in some cases differentiation Lewis et al. Adv. Cancer Res. 1998 74 49 139 .

There has been strong evidence that genetic mutations and or overexpression of protein kinases involved in the MAP kinase pathway lead to uncontrolled cell proliferation and eventually tumor formation in proliferative diseases. For example some cancers contain mutations which result in the continuous activation of this pathway due to continuous production of growth factors. Other mutations can lead to defects in the deactivation of the activated GTP bound Ras complex again resulting in activation of the MAP kinase pathway. Mutated oncogenic forms of Ras are found in 50 of colon and 90 pancreatic cancers as well as many others types of cancers Kohl et al. Science 1993 260 1834 1837 . Recently bRaf mutations have been identified in more than 60 of malignant melanoma Davies H. et al. Nature 2002 417 949 954 . These mutations in bRaf result in a constitutively active MAP kinase cascade. Studies of primary tumor samples and cell lines have also shown constitutive or overactivation of the MAP kinase pathway in cancers of pancreas colon lung ovary and kidney Hoshino R. et al. Oncogene 1999 18 813 822 .

MEK has emerged as an attractive therapeutic target in the MAP kinase cascade pathway. MEK downstream of Ras and Raf is highly specific for the phosphorylation of MAP kinase in fact the only known substrates for MEK phosphorylation are the MAP kinases ERK1 and 2. Inhibition of MEK has been shown to have potential therapeutic benefit in several studies. For example small molecule MEK inhibitors have been shown to inhibit human tumor growth in nude mouse xenografts Sebolt Leopold et al. 1999 5 7 810 816 Trachet et al. AACR Apr. 6 10 2002 Poster 5426 Tecle H. IBC 2.sup.nd International Conference of Protein Kinases Sep. 9 10 2002 block static allodynia in animals WO 01 05390 published Jan. 25 2001 and inhibit growth of acute myeloid leukemia cells Milella et al. 2001 108 6 851 859 .

Several small molecule MEK inhibitors have also been discussed in for example WO02 06213 WO 03 077855 and WO03 077914. There still exists a need for new MEK inhibitors as effective and safe therapeutics for treating a variety of proliferative disease states such as conditions related to the hyperactivity of MEK as well as diseases modulated by the MEK cascade.

The invention relates generally to bicyclic heterocycles of formulae I and II and or solvates hydrates and or salts thereof with anti cancer and or anti inflammatory activity and more specifically with MEK kinase inhibitory activity. Certain hyperproliferative and inflammatory disorders are characterized by the modulation of MEK kinase function for example by mutations or overexpression of the proteins. Accordingly the compounds of the invention and compositions thereof are useful in the treatment of hyperproliferative disorders such as cancer and or inflammatory diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis.

The present invention includes a composition e.g. a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of formula I or II and or solvates hydrates and or salts thereof and a carrier a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier . The present invention also includes a composition e.g. a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of formula I or II and or solvates hydrates and or salts thereof and a carrier a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier further comprising a second chemotherapeutic and or a second anti inflammatory agent. The present compositions are useful for inhibiting abnormal cell growth or treating a hyperproliferative disorder in a mammal e.g. human . The present compositions are also useful for treating inflammatory diseases in a mammal e.g. human .

The present invention includes a method of inhibiting abnormal cell growth or treating a hyperproliferative disorder in a mammal e.g. human comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula I or II and or solvates and salts thereof or a composition thereof alone or in combination with a second chemotherapeutic agent.

The present invention includes a method of treating an inflammatory disease in a mammal e.g. human comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula I or II and or solvates and salts thereof or a composition thereof alone or in combination with a second anti inflammatory agent.

The present invention includes a method of using the present compounds for in vitro in situ and in vivo diagnosis or treatment of mammalian cells organisms or associated pathological conditions.

Reference will now be made in detail to certain embodiments of the invention examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying structures and formulae. While the invention will be described in conjunction with the enumerated embodiments it will be understood that they are not intended to limit the invention to those embodiments. On the contrary the invention is intended to cover all alternatives modifications and equivalents which may be included within the scope of the present invention as defined by the claims. One skilled in the art will recognize many methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein which could be used in the practice of the present invention. The present invention is in no way limited to the methods and materials described. In the event that one or more of the incorporated literature patents and similar materials differs from or contradicts this application including but not limited to defined terms term usage described techniques or the like this application controls.

The term alkyl as used herein refers to a saturated linear or branched chain monovalent hydrocarbon radical of one to twelve carbon atoms. Examples of alkyl groups include but are not limited to methyl Me CH ethyl Et CHCH 1 propyl n Pr n propyl CHCHCH 2 propyl i Pr i propyl CH CH 1 butyl n Bu n butyl CHCHCHCH 2 methyl 1 propyl 1 Bu i butyl CHCH CH 2 butyl s Bu s butyl CH CH CHCH 2 methyl 2 propyl t Bu t butyl C CH 1 pentyl n pentyl CHCHCHCHCH 2 pentyl CH CH CHCHCH 3 pentyl CH CHCH 2 methyl 2 butyl C CH CHCH 3 methyl 2 butyl CH CH CH CH 3 methyl 1 butyl CHCHCH CH 2 methyl 1 butyl CHCH CH CHCH 1 hexyl CHCHCHCHCHCH 2 hexyl CH CH CHCHCHCH 3 hexyl CH CHCH CHCHCH 2 methyl 2 pentyl C CH CHCHCH 3 methyl 2 pentyl CH CH CH CH CHCH 4 methyl 2 pentyl CH CH CHCH CH 3 methyl 3 pentyl C CH CHCH 2 methyl 3 pentyl CH CHCH CH CH 2 3 dimethyl 2 butyl C CH CH CH 3 3 dimethyl 2 butyl CH CH C CH 1 heptyl 1 octyl and the like.

The term alkenyl refers to linear or branched chain monovalent hydrocarbon radical of two to twelve carbon atoms with at least one site of unsaturation i.e. a carbon carbon spdouble bond wherein the alkenyl radical includes radicals having cis and trans orientations or alternatively E and Z orientations. Examples include but are not limited to ethylenyl or vinyl CH CH allyl CHCH CH and the like.

The term alkynyl refers to a linear or branched monovalent hydrocarbon radical of two to twelve carbon atoms with at least one site of unsaturation i.e. a carbon carbon sp triple bond. Examples include but are not limited to ethynyl C CH propynyl propargyl CHC CH and the like.

The terms carbocycle carbocyclyl carbocyclic ring and cycloalkyl refer to a monovalent non aromatic saturated or partially unsaturated ring having 3 to 12 carbon atoms as a monocyclic ring or 7 to 12 carbon atoms as a bicyclic ring. Bicyclic carbocycles having 7 to 12 atoms can be arranged for example as a bicyclo 4 5 5 5 5 6 or 6 6 system and bicyclic carbocycles having 9 or 10 ring atoms can be arranged as a bicyclo 5 6 or 6 6 system or as bridged systems such as bicyclo 2.2.1 heptane bicyclo 2.2.2 octane and bicyclo 3.2.2 nonane. Examples of monocyclic carbocycles include but are not limited to cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl 1 cyclopent 1 enyl 1 cyclopent 2 enyl 1 cyclopent 3 enyl cyclohexyl 1 cyclohex 1 enyl 1 cyclohex 2 enyl 1 cyclohex 3 enyl cyclohexadienyl cycloheptyl cyclooctyl cyclononyl cyclodecyl cycloundecyl cyclododecyl and the like.

 Aryl means a monovalent aromatic hydrocarbon radical of 6 18 carbon atoms derived by the removal of one hydrogen atom from a single carbon atom of a parent aromatic ring system. Some aryl groups are represented in the exemplary structures as Ar . Aryl includes bicyclic radicals comprising an aromatic ring fused to a saturated partially unsaturated ring or aromatic carbocyclic or heterocyclic ring. Typical aryl groups include but are not limited to radicals derived from benzene phenyl substituted benzenes naphthalene anthracene indenyl indanyl 1 2 dihydronaphthalene 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthyl and the like.

The terms heterocycle heterocyclyl and heterocyclic ring are used interchangeably herein and refer to a saturated or a partially unsaturated i.e. having one or more double and or triple bonds within the ring carbocyclic radical of 3 to 18 ring atoms in which at least one ring atom is a heteroatom selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulfur the remaining ring atoms being C where one or more ring atoms is optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described below. A heterocycle may be a monocycle having 3 to 7 ring members 2 to 6 carbon atoms and 1 to 4 heteroatoms selected from N O and S or a bicycle having 7 to 10 ring members 4 to 9 carbon atoms and 1 to 6 heteroatoms selected from N O and S for example a bicyclo 4 5 5 5 5 6 or 6 6 system. Heterocycles are described in Paquette Leo A. Principles of Modern Heterocyclic Chemistry W.A. Benjamin New York 1968 particularly Chapters 1 3 4 6 7 and 9 The Chemistry of Heterocyclic Compounds A series of Monographs John Wiley Sons New York 1950 to present in particular Volumes 13 14 16 19 and 28 and J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1960 82 5566. Heterocyclyl also includes radicals where heterocycle radicals are fused with a saturated partially unsaturated ring or aromatic carbocyclic or heterocyclic ring. Examples of heterocyclic rings include but are not limited to pyrrolidinyl tetrahydrofuranyl dihydrofuranyl tetrahydrothienyl tetrahydropyranyl dihydropyranyl tetrahydrothiopyranyl piperidinyl morpholinyl thiomorpholinyl thioxanyl piperazinyl homopiperazinyl azetidinyl oxetanyl thietanyl homopiperidinyl oxepanyl thiepanyl oxazepinyl diazepinyl thiazepinyl 2 pyrrolinyl 3 pyrrolinyl indolinyl 2H pyranyl 4H pyranyl dioxanyl 1 3 dioxolanyl pyrazolinyl dithianyl dithiolanyl dihydropyranyl dihydrothienyl dihydrofuranyl pyrazolidinylimidazolinyl imidazolidinyl 3 azabicyco 3.1.0 hexanyl 3 azabicyclo 4.1.0 heptanyl and azabicyclo 2.2.2 hexanyl. Spiro moieties are also included within the scope of this definition. Examples of a heterocyclic group wherein ring atoms are substituted with oxo O moieties are pyrimidinonyl and 1 1 dioxo thiomorpholinyl.

The term heteroaryl refers to a monovalent aromatic radical of 5 or 6 membered rings and includes fused ring systems at least one of which is aromatic of 5 18 atoms containing one or more heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulfur. Examples of heteroaryl groups are pyridinyl including for example 2 hydroxypyridinyl imidazolyl imidazopyridinyl pyrimidinyl including for example 4 hydroxypyrimidinyl pyrazolyl triazolyl pyrazinyl tetrazolyl furyl thienyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl oxazolyl isothiazolyl pyrrolyl quinolinyl isoquinolinyl indolyl benzimidazolyl benzofuranyl cinnolinyl indazolyl indolizinyl phthalazinyl pyridazinyl triazinyl isoindolyl pteridinyl purinyl oxadiazolyl triazolyl thiadiazolyl furazanyl benzofurazanyl benzothiophenyl benzothiazolyl benzoxazolyl quinazolinyl quinoxalinyl naphthyridinyl and furopyridinyl.

The heterocycle or heteroaryl groups may be carbon carbon linked or nitrogen nitrogen linked attached where such is possible. By way of example and not limitation carbon bonded heterocycles or heteroaryls are bonded at position 2 3 4 5 or 6 of a pyridine position 3 4 5 or 6 of a pyridazine position 2 4 5 or 6 of a pyrimidine position 2 3 5 or 6 of a pyrazine position 2 3 4 or 5 of a furan tetrahydrofuran thiophene pyrrole or tetrahydropyrrole position 2 4 or 5 of an oxazole imidazole or thiazole position 3 4 or 5 of an isoxazole pyrazole or isothiazole position 2 or 3 of an aziridine position 2 3 or 4 of an azetidine position 2 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 of a quinoline or position 1 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 of an isoquinoline.

By way of example and not limitation nitrogen bonded heterocycles or heteroaryls are bonded at position 1 of an aziridine azetidine pyrrole pyrrolidine 2 pyrroline 3 pyrroline imidazole imidazolidine 2 imidazoline 3 imidazoline pyrazole pyrazoline 2 pyrazoline 3 pyrazoline piperidine piperazine indole indoline 1H indazole position 2 of a isoindole or isoindoline position 4 of a morpholine and position 9 of a carbazole or carboline.

The term halo refers to F Cl Br or I. The heteroatoms present in heteroaryl or heterocyclcyl include the oxidized forms such as N O S O and S O .

The terms treat and treatment refer to both therapeutic treatment and prophylactic or preventative measures wherein the object is to prevent or slow down lessen an undesired physiological change or disorder such as the development or spread of cancer. For purposes of this invention beneficial or desired clinical results include but are not limited to alleviation of symptoms diminishment of extent of disease stabilized i.e. not worsening state of disease delay or slowing of disease progression amelioration or palliation of the disease state and remission whether partial or total whether detectable or undetectable. Treatment can also mean prolonging survival as compared to expected survival if not receiving treatment. Those in need of treatment include those already with the condition or disorder as well as those prone to have the condition or disorder or those in which the condition or disorder is to be prevented.

The phrase therapeutically effective amount means an amount of a compound of the present invention that i treats or prevents the particular disease condition or disorder ii attenuates ameliorates or eliminates one or more symptoms of the particular disease condition or disorder or iii prevents or delays the onset of one or more symptoms of the particular disease condition or disorder described herein. In the case of cancer the therapeutically effective amount of the drug may reduce the number of cancer cells reduce the tumor size inhibit i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop cancer cell infiltration into peripheral organs inhibit i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop tumor metastasis inhibit to some extent tumor growth and or relieve to some extent one or more of the symptoms associated with the cancer. To the extent the drug may prevent growth and or kill existing cancer cells it may be cytostatic and or cytotoxic. For cancer therapy efficacy can be measured for example by assessing the time to disease progression TTP and or determining the response rate RR .

The terms abnormal cell growth and hyperproliferative disorder are used interchangeably in this application. Abnormal cell growth as used herein unless otherwise indicated refers to cell growth that is independent of normal regulatory mechanisms e.g. loss of contact inhibition . This includes for example the abnormal growth of 1 tumor cells tumors that proliferate by expressing a mutated tyrosine kinase or overexpression of a receptor tyrosine kinase 2 benign and malignant cells of other proliferative diseases in which aberrant tyrosine kinase activation occurs 3 any tumors that proliferate by receptor tyrosine kinases 4 any tumors that proliferate by aberrant serine threonine kinase activation and 5 benign and malignant cells of other proliferative diseases in which aberrant serine threonine kinase activation occurs.

The terms cancer and cancerous refer to or describe the physiological condition in mammals that is typically characterized by unregulated cell growth. A tumor comprises one or more cancerous cells. Examples of cancer include but are not limited to carcinoma lymphoma blastoma sarcoma and leukemia or lymphoid malignancies. More particular examples of such cancers include squamous cell cancer e.g. epithelial squamous cell cancer lung cancer including small cell lung cancer non small cell lung cancer NSCLC adenocarcinoma of the lung and squamous carcinoma of the lung cancer of the peritoneum hepatocellular cancer gastric or stomach cancer including gastrointestinal cancer pancreatic cancer glioblastoma cervical cancer ovarian cancer liver cancer bladder cancer hepatoma breast cancer colon cancer rectal cancer colorectal cancer endometrial or uterine carcinoma salivary gland carcinoma kidney or renal cancer prostate cancer vulval cancer thyroid cancer hepatic carcinoma anal carcinoma penile carcinoma acute leukemia as well as head brain and neck cancer.

A chemotherapeutic agent is a compound useful in the treatment of cancer. Examples of chemotherapeutic agents include Erlotinib TARCEVA Genentech OSI Pharm. Bortezomib VELCADE Millennium Pharm. Fulvestrant FASLODEX AstraZeneca Sutent SU11248 Pfizer Letrozole FEMARA Novartis Imatinib mesylate GLEEVEC Novartis PTK787 ZK 222584 Novartis Oxaliplatin Eloxatin Sanofi 5 FU 5 fluorouracil Leucovorin Rapamycin Sirolimus RAPAMUNE Wyeth Lapatinib TYKERB GSK572016 Glaxo Smith Kline Lonafarnib SCH 66336 Sorafenib BAY43 9006 Bayer Labs and Gefitinib IRESSA AstraZeneca AG1478 AG1571 SU 5271 Sugen alkylating agents such as thiotepa and CYTOXAN cyclosphosphamide alkyl sulfonates such as busulfan improsulfan and piposulfan aziridines such as benzodopa carboquone meturedopa and uredopa ethylenimines and methylamelamines including altretamine triethylenemelamine triethylenephosphoramide triethylenethiophosphoramide and trimethylomelamine acetogenins especially bullatacin and bullatacinone a camptothecin including the synthetic analog topotecan bryostatin callystatin CC 1065 including its adozelesin carzelesin and bizelesin synthetic analogs cryptophycins particularly cryptophycin 1 and cryptophycin 8 dolastatin duocarmycin including the synthetic analogs KW 2189 and CB1 TM1 eleutherobin pancratistatin a sarcodictyin spongistatin nitrogen mustards such as chlorambucil chlornaphazine chlorophosphamide estramustine ifosfamide mechlorethamine mechlorethamine oxide hydrochloride melphalan novembichin phenesterine prednimustine trofosfamide uracil mustard nitrosureas such as carmustine chlorozotocin fotemustine lomustine nimustine and ranimustine antibiotics such as the enediyne antibiotics e.g. calicheamicin especially calicheamicin gamma1I and calicheamicin omegaI1 Angew Chem. Intl. Ed. Engl. 1994 33 183 186 dynemicin including dynemicin A bisphosphonates such as clodronate an esperamicin as well as neocarzinostatin chromophore and related chromoprotein enediyne antibiotic chromophores aclacinomysins actinomycin authramycin azaserine bleomycins cactinomycin carabicin caminomycin carzinophilin chromomycinis dactinomycin daunorubicin detorubicin 6 diazo 5 oxo L norleucine ADRIAMYCIN doxorubicin morpholino doxorubicin cyanomorpholino doxorubicin 2 pyrrolino doxorubicin and deoxydoxorubicin epirubicin esorubicin idarubicin marcellomycin mitomycins such as mitomycin C mycophenolic acid nogalamycin olivomycins peplomycin porfiromycin puromycin quelamycin rodorubicin streptonigrin streptozocin tubercidin ubenimex zinostatin zorubicin anti metabolites such as methotrexate and 5 fluorouracil 5 FU folic acid analogs such as denopterin methotrexate pteropterin trimetrexate purine analogs such as fludarabine 6 mercaptopurine thiamiprine thioguanine pyrimidine analogs such as ancitabine azacitidine 6 azauridine carmofur cytarabine dideoxyuridine doxifluridine enocitabine floxuridine androgens such as calusterone dromostanolone propionate epitiostanol mepitiostane testolactone anti adrenals such as aminoglutethimide mitotane trilostane folic acid replenisher such as frolinic acid aceglatone aldophosphamide glycoside aminolevulinic acid eniluracil amsacrine bestrabucil bisantrene edatraxate defofamine demecolcine diaziquone elformithine elliptinium acetate an epothilone etoglucid gallium nitrate hydroxyurea lentinan lonidainine maytansinoids such as maytansine and ansamitocins mitoguazone mitoxantrone mopidanmol nitraerine pentostatin phenamet pirarubicin losoxantrone podophyllinic acid 2 ethylhydrazide procarbazine PSK polysaccharide complex JHS Natural Products Eugene Oreg. razoxane rhizoxin sizofiran spirogermanium tenuazonic acid triaziquone 2 2 2 trichlorotriethylamine trichothecenes especially T 2 toxin verracurin A roridin A and anguidine urethan vindesine dacarbazine mannomustine mitobronitol mitolactol pipobroman gacytosine arabinoside Ara C cyclophosphamide thiotepa taxoids e.g. TAXOL paclitaxel Bristol Myers Squibb Oncology Princeton N.J. ABRAXANE Cremophor free albumin engineered nanoparticle formulations of paclitaxel American Pharmaceutical Partners Schaumberg Ill. and TAXOTERE doxetaxel Rhone Poulenc Rorer Antony France chloranmbucil GEMZAR gemcitabine 6 thioguanine mercaptopurine methotrexate platinum analogs such as cisplatin and carboplatin vinblastine etoposide VP 16 ifosfamide mitoxantrone vincristine NAVELBINE vinorelbine novantrone teniposide edatrexate daunomycin aminopterin capecitabine XELODA ibandronate CPT 11 topoisomerase inhibitor RFS 2000 difluoromethylornithine DMFO retinoids such as retinoic acid and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids and derivatives of any of the above.

Also included in the definition of chemotherapeutic agent are i anti hormonal agents that act to regulate or inhibit hormone action on tumors such as anti estrogens and selective estrogen receptor modulators SERMs including for example tamoxifen including NOLVADEX tamoxifen citrate raloxifene droloxifene 4 hydroxytamoxifen trioxifene keoxifene LY117018 onapristone and FARESTON toremifine citrate ii aromatase inhibitors that inhibit the enzyme aromatase which regulates estrogen production in the adrenal glands such as for example 4 5 imidazoles aminoglutethimide MEGASE megestrol acetate AROMASIN exemestane Pfizer formestanie fadrozole RIVISOR vorozole FEMARA letrozole Novartis and ARIMIDEX anastrozole AstraZeneca iii anti androgens such as flutamide nilutamide bicalutamide leuprolide and goserelin as well as troxacitabine a 1 3 dioxolane nucleoside cytosine analog iv protein kinase inhibitors v lipid kinase inhibitors vi antisense oligonucleotides particularly those which inhibit expression of genes in signaling pathways implicated in aberrant cell proliferation such as for example PKC alpha Ralf and H Ras vii ribozymes such as VEGF expression inhibitors e.g. ANGIOZYME and HER2 expression inhibitors viii vaccines such as gene therapy vaccines for example ALLOVECTIN LEUVECTIN and VAXID PROLEUKIN rIL 2 a topoisomerase 1 inhibitor such as LURTOTECAN ABARELIX rmRH ix anti angiogenic agents such as bevacizumab AVASTIN Genentech and x pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids and derivatives of any of the above. Other anti angiogenic agents include MMP 2 matrix metalloproteinase 2 inhibitors MMP 9 matrix metalloproteinase 9 inhibitors COX II cyclooxygenase II inhibitors and VEGF receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors. Examples of such useful matrix metalloproteinase inhibitors that can be used in combination with the present compounds compositions are described in WO 96 33172 WO 96 27583 EP 818442 EP 1004578 WO 98 07697 WO 98 03516 WO 98 34918 WO 98 34915 WO 98 33768 WO 98 30566 EP 606 046 EP 931 788 WO 90 05719 WO 99 52910 WO 99 52889 WO 99 29667 WO 99 07675 EP 945864 U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 863 949 5 861 510 and EP 780 386 all of which are incorporated herein in their entireties by reference. Examples of VEGF receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors include 4 4 bromo 2 fluoroanilino 6 methoxy 7 1 methylpiperidin 4 ylmethoxy quinazoline ZD6474 Example 2 within WO 01 32651 4 4 fluoro 2 methylindol 5 yloxy 6 methoxy 7 3 pyrrolidin 1 ylpropoxy quinazoline AZD2171 Example 240 within WO 00 47212 vatalanib PTK787 WO 98 35985 and SU11248 sunitinib WO 01 60814 and compounds such as those disclosed in PCT Publication Nos. WO 97 22596 WO 97 30035 WO 97 32856 and WO 98 13354 .

Other examples of chemotherapeutic agents that can be used in combination with the present compounds include inhibitors of PI3K phosphoinositide 3 kinase such as those reported in Yaguchi et al 2006 Jour. of the Nat. Cancer Inst. 98 8 545 556 U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 173 029 7 037 915 6 608 056 6 608 053 6 838 457 6 770 641 6 653 320 6 403 588 WO 2006 046031 WO 2006 046035 WO 2006 046040 WO 2007 042806 WO 2007 042810 WO 2004 017950 US 2004 092561 WO 2004 007491 WO 2004 006916 WO 2003 037886 US 2003 149074 WO 2003 035618 WO 2003 034997 US 2003 158212 EP 1417976 US 2004 053946 JP 2001247477 JP 08175990 JP 08176070 U.S. Pat. No. 6 703 414 and WO 97 15658 all of which are incorporated herein in their entireties by reference. Specific examples of such PI3K inhibitors include SF 1126 PI3K inhibitor Semafore Pharmaceuticals BEZ 235 PI3K inhibitor Novartis XL 147 PI3K inhibitor Exelixis Inc. and GDC 0941 PI3K inhibitor PIramed and Genenetch .

The term inflammatory diseases as used in this application includes but not limited to rheumatoid arthritis atherosclerosis congestive heart failure inflammatory bowel disease including but not limited to Crohn s disease and ulcerative colitis chronic obstructive pulmonary disease in the lung fibrotic disease in the liver and kidney Crohn s disease lupus skin diseases such as psoriasis eczema and scleroderma osteoarthritis multiple sclerosis asthma diseases and disorders related to diabetic complications fibrotic organ failure in organs such as lung liver kidney and inflammatory complications of the cardiovascular system such as acute coronary syndrome.

An anti inflammatory agent is a compound useful in the treatment of inflammation. Examples of anti inflammatory agents include injectable protein therapeutics such as Enbrel Remicade Humira and Kineret . Other examples of anti inflammatory agents include non steroidal anti inflammatory agents NSAIDs such as ibuprofen or aspirin which reduce swelling and alleviate pain disease modifying anti rheumatic drugs DMARDs such as methotrexate 5 aminosalicylates sulfasalazine and the sulfa free agents corticosteroids immunomodulators such as 6 mercaptoputine 6 MP azathioprine AZA cyclosporines and biological response modifiers such as Remicade infliximab and Enbrel etanercept fibroblast growth factors platelet derived growth factors enzyme blockers such as Arava leflunomide and or a cartilage protecting agent such as hyaluronic acid glucosamine and chondroitin.

The term prodrug as used in this application refers to a precursor or derivative form of a compound of the invention that is capable of being enzymatically or hydrolytically activated or converted into the more active parent form. See e.g. Wilman Prodrugs in Cancer Chemotherapy Biochemical Society Transactions 14 pp. 375 382 615th Meeting Belfast 1986 and Stella et al. Prodrugs A Chemical Approach to Targeted Drug Delivery Borchardt et al. ed. pp. 247 267 Humana Press 1985 . The prodrugs of this invention include but are not limited to ester containing prodrugs phosphate containing prodrugs thiophosphate containing prodrugs sulfate containing prodrugs peptide containing prodrugs D amino acid modified prodrugs glycosylated prodrugs lactam containing prodrugs optionally substituted phenoxyacetamide containing prodrugs optionally substituted phenylacetamide containing prodrugs 5 fluorocytosine and other 5 fluorouridine prodrugs which can be converted into the more active cytotoxic free drug. Examples of cytotoxic drugs that can be derivatized into a prodrug form for use in this invention include but are not limited to compounds of the invention and chemotherapeutic agents such as described above.

A metabolite is a product produced through metabolism in the body of a specified compound or salt thereof. Metabolites of a compound may be identified using routine techniques known in the art and their activities determined using tests such as those described herein. Such products may result for example from the oxidation hydroxylation reduction hydrolysis amidation deamidation esterification deesterification enzymatic cleavage and the like of the administered compound. Accordingly the invention includes metabolites of compounds of the invention including compounds produced by a process comprising contacting a compound of this invention with a mammal for a period of time sufficient to yield a metabolic product thereof.

A liposome is a small vesicle composed of various types of lipids phospholipids and or surfactant which is useful for delivery of a drug such as the MEK inhibitors disclosed herein and optionally a chemotherapeutic agent to a mammal. The components of the liposome are commonly arranged in a bilayer formation similar to the lipid arrangement of biological membranes.

The term package insert is used to refer to instructions customarily included in commercial packages of therapeutic products that contain information about the indications usage dosage administration contraindications and or warnings concerning the use of such therapeutic products.

The term chiral refers to molecules which have the property of non superimposability of the mirror image partner while the term achiral refers to molecules which are superimposable on their mirror image partner.

The term stereoisomer refers to compounds which have identical chemical constitution and connectivity but different orientations of their atoms in space that cannot be interconverted by rotation about single bonds.

 Diastereomer refers to a stereoisomer with two or more centers of chirality and whose molecules are not mirror images of one another. Diastereomers have different physical properties e.g. melting points boiling points spectral properties and reactivities. Mixtures of diastereomers may separate under high resolution analytical procedures such as crystallization electrophoresis and chromatography.

 Enantiomers refer to two stereoisomers of a compound which are non superimposable mirror images of one another.

Stereochemical definitions and conventions used herein generally follow S. P. Parker Ed. 1984 McGraw Hill Book Company New York and Eliel E. and Wilen S. Stereochemistry of Organic Compounds John Wiley Sons Inc. New York 1994. The compounds of the invention may contain asymmetric or chiral centers and therefore exist in different stereoisomeric forms. It is intended that all stereoisomeric forms of the compounds of the invention including but not limited to diastereomers enantiomers and atropisomers as well as mixtures thereof such as racemic mixtures form part of the present invention. Many organic compounds exist in optically active forms i.e. they have the ability to rotate the plane of plane polarized light. In describing an optically active compound the prefixes D and L or R and S are used to denote the absolute configuration of the molecule about its chiral center s . The prefixes d and l or and are employed to designate the sign of rotation of plane polarized light by the compound with or l meaning that the compound is levorotatory. A compound prefixed with or d is dextrorotatory. For a given chemical structure these stereoisomers are identical except that they are mirror images of one another. A specific stereoisomer may also be referred to as an enantiomer and a mixture of such isomers is often called an enantiomeric mixture. A 50 50 mixture of enantiomers is referred to as a racemic mixture or a racemate which may occur where there has been no stereoselection or stereospecificity in a chemical reaction or process. The terms racemic mixture and racemate refer to an equimolar mixture of two enantiomeric species devoid of optical activity.

The term tautomer or tautomeric form refers to structural isomers of different energies which are interconvertible via a low energy barrier. For example proton tautomers also known as prototropic tautomers include interconversions via migration of a proton such as keto enol and imine enamine isomerizations. Valence tautomers include interconversions by reorganization of some of the bonding electrons.

The phrase pharmaceutically acceptable salt as used herein refers to pharmaceutically acceptable organic or inorganic salts of a compound of the invention. Exemplary salts include but are not limited to sulfate citrate acetate oxalate chloride bromide iodide nitrate bisulfate phosphate acid phosphate isonicotinate lactate salicylate acid citrate tartrate oleate tannate pantothenate bitartrate ascorbate succinate maleate gentisinate fumarate gluconate glucuronate saccharate formate benzoate glutamate methanesulfonate mesylate ethanesulfonate benzenesulfonate p toluenesulfonate pamoate i.e. 1 1 methylene bis 2 hydroxy 3 naphthoate salts alkali metal e.g. sodium and potassium salts alkaline earth metal e.g. magnesium salts and ammonium salts. A pharmaceutically acceptable salt may involve the inclusion of another molecule such as an acetate ion a succinate ion or other counter ion. The counter ion may be any organic or inorganic moiety that stabilizes the charge on the parent compound. Furthermore a pharmaceutically acceptable salt may have more than one charged atom in its structure. Instances where multiple charged atoms are part of the pharmaceutically acceptable salt can have multiple counter ions. Hence a pharmaceutically acceptable salt can have one or more charged atoms and or one or more counter ion.

If the compound of the invention is a base the desired pharmaceutically acceptable salt may be prepared by any suitable method available in the art for example treatment of the free base with an inorganic acid such as hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid sulfuric acid nitric acid methanesulfonic acid phosphoric acid and the like or with an organic acid such as acetic acid maleic acid succinic acid mandelic acid fumaric acid malonic acid pyruvic acid oxalic acid glycolic acid salicylic acid a pyranosidyl acid such as glucuronic acid or galacturonic acid an alpha hydroxy acid such as citric acid or tartaric acid an amino acid such as aspartic acid or glutamic acid an aromatic acid such as benzoic acid or cinnamic acid a sulfonic acid such as p toluenesulfonic acid or ethanesulfonic acid or the like.

If the compound of the invention is an acid the desired pharmaceutically acceptable salt may be prepared by any suitable method for example treatment of the free acid with an inorganic or organic base such as an amine primary secondary or tertiary an alkali metal hydroxide or alkaline earth metal hydroxide or the like. Illustrative examples of suitable salts include but are not limited to organic salts derived from amino acids such as glycine and arginine ammonia primary secondary and tertiary amines and cyclic amines such as piperidine morpholine and piperazine and inorganic salts derived from sodium calcium potassium magnesium manganese iron copper zinc aluminum and lithium.

The phrase pharmaceutically acceptable indicates that the substance or composition must be compatible chemically and or toxicologically with the other ingredients comprising a formulation and or the mammal being treated therewith.

A solvate refers to an association or complex of one or more solvent molecules and a compound of the invention. Examples of solvents that form solvates include but are not limited to water isopropanol ethanol methanol DMSO ethyl acetate acetic acid and ethanolamine. The term hydrate refers to the complex where the solvent molecule is water.

The term protecting group refers to a substituent that is commonly employed to block or protect a particular functionality while reacting other functional groups on the compound. For example an amino protecting group is a substituent attached to an amino group that blocks or protects the amino functionality in the compound. Suitable amino protecting groups include acetyl trifluoroacetyl t butoxycarbonyl BOC benzyloxycarbonyl CBZ and 9 fluorenylmethylenoxycarbonyl Fmoc . Similarly a hydroxy protecting group refers to a substituent of a hydroxy group that blocks or protects the hydroxy functionality. Suitable protecting groups include acetyl and trialkylsilyl. A carboxy protecting group refers to a substituent of the carboxy group that blocks or protects the carboxy functionality. Common carboxy protecting groups include phenylsulfonylethyl cyanoethyl 2 trimethylsilyl ethyl 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxymethyl 2 p toluenesulfonyl ethyl 2 p nitrophenylsulfenyl ethyl 2 diphenylphosphino ethyl nitroethyl and the like. For a general description of protecting groups and their use see T. W. Greene Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis John Wiley Sons New York 1991.

The terms compound of this invention compounds of the present invention and compounds of formula I or II unless otherwise indicated include compounds of formula I or II and stereoisomers geometric isomers tautomers solvates metabolites salts e.g. pharmaceutically acceptable salts and prodrugs thereof. Unless otherwise stated structures depicted herein are also meant to include compounds that differ only in the presence of one or more isotopically enriched atoms. For example compounds of formula I or II wherein one or more hydrogen atoms are replaced deuterium or tritium or one or more carbon atoms are replaced by a C or C enriched carbon are within the scope of this invention.

The present invention provides bicyclic heterocycles of formula I and II as described above useful as kinase inhibitors particularly useful as MEK kinase inhibitors.

In an embodiment of the present invention when Ris CRR C O R CRR NRR CRR OR CRR SR CRR S O R or CRR S O R n is 0 and Zis O then said Ror Ris not aryl when Zis O then Ris not CH aryl and all other variables are as defined in formula I.

In an embodiment of the present invention compounds are of formula I a i.e. Zis NH and Zand Zare CH I b i.e. Zis NH Zis N and Zis CH I c i.e. Zis NH Zis CH and Zis N I d i.e. Zis S Zand Zare CH I e i.e. Zis S Zis N and Zis CH I f i.e. Zis S Zis CH and Zis N II a i.e. Zis NH and Zand Zare CH II b i.e. Zis NH Zis N and Zis CH II c i.e. Zis NH Zis CH and Zis N II d i.e. Zis S Zand Zare CH II e i.e. Zis S Zis N and Zis CH or II f i.e. Zis S Zis CH and Zis N and all other variables are as defined in formula I or II.

In an embodiment of the present invention Zis CRand Ris H halo CF or C Calkyl and all other variables are as defined in formula I or II or as defined in any one of the embodiments described above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Zis CRand Ris H methyl CF F or Cl and all other variables are as defined in formula I or II or as defined in any one of the embodiments described above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Zis CRand Ris H F or Cl and all other variables are as defined in formula I or II or as defined in any one of the embodiments described above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Zis N and all other variables are as defined in formula I or II or as defined in any one of the embodiments described above.

In an embodiment of the present invention Zis CRand Ris H halo CF O C Calkyl or C Calkyl and all other variables are as defined in formula I or II or as defined in any one of the embodiments described above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Zis CRand Ris H methyl CF F OMe or Cl and all other variables are as defined in formula I or II or as defined in any one of the embodiments described above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Zis CRand Ris H F OMe or Cl and all other variables are as defined in formula I or II or as defined in any one of the embodiments described above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Zis N and all other variables are as defined in formula I or II or as defined in any one of the embodiments described above.

In an embodiment of the present invention R is H and all other variables are as defined in formula I or II or as defined in any one of the embodiments described above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Zis NR and all other variables are as defined in formula I or II or as defined in any one of the embodiments described above. In another embodiment Ris H and all other variables are as defined in formula I or II or as defined in any one of the embodiments above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Zis S and all other variables are as defined in formula I or II or as defined in any one of the embodiments described above.

In an embodiment of the present invention Ris H or C Calkyl and all other variables are as defined in formula I or II or as defined in any one of the embodiments above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Ris H or methyl and all other variables are as defined in formula I or II or as defined in any one of the embodiments above. In another embodiment of the present invention Ris H and all other variables are as defined in formula I or II or as defined in any one of the embodiments above.

In an embodiment of the present invention Ris H or C Calkyl and all other variables are as defined in formula I or II or as defined in any one of the embodiments above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Ris H or methyl and all other variables are as defined in formula I or II or as defined in any one of the embodiments above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Ris H and all other variables are as defined in formula I or II or as defined in any one of the embodiments above.

In an embodiment of the present invention Xis OR wherein R is H or C Calkyl e.g. C Calkyl substituted with one or more groups independently selected from halo CN CF OCF NO oxo CRR C Y R CRR C Y OR CRR C Y NRR CRR NRR CRR OR CRR SR CRR NRC Y R CRR NRC Y OR CRR NRC Y NRR CRR NRSOR CRR OC Y R CRR OC Y OR CRR OC Y NRR CRR OS O OR CRR OP Y OR OR CRR OP OR OR CRR S O R CRR S O R CRR S O NRR CRR S O OR CRR S O OR CRR SC Y R CRR SC Y OR CRR SC Y NRR and R and all other variables are as defined in formula I or II or as defined in any one of the embodiments above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Xis OR wherein R is heterocyclyl e.g. 4 to 6 membered heterocyclyl optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from halo CN CF OCF NO oxo CRR C Y OR CRR C Y OR CRR C Y NRR CRR NRR CRR OR CRR SR CRR NRC Y R CRR NRC Y OR CRR NRC Y NRR CRR NRSOR CRR OC Y R CRR OC Y OR CRR OC Y NRR CRR OS O OR CRR OP Y OR OR CRR OP OR OR CRR S O R CRR S O R CRR S O NRR CRR S O OR CRR S O OR CRR SC Y R CRR SC Y OR CRR SC Y NRR and R and all other variables are as defined in formula I or II or as defined in any one of the embodiments above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Xis OR wherein R is 4 to 6 membered heterocyclyl having 1 nitrogen ring atom wherein said heterocyclyl is optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from halo CN CF OCF NO oxo CRR C Y R CRR C Y OR CRR C Y NRR CRR NRR CRR OR CRR SR CRR NRC Y R CRR NRC Y OR CRR NRC Y NRR CRR NRSOR CRR OC Y R CRR OC Y OR CRR OC Y NRR CRR OS O OR CRR OP Y OR OR CRR OP OR OR CRR S O R CRR S O R CRR S O NRR CRR S O OR CRR S O OR CRR SC Y R CRR SC Y OR CRR SC Y NRR and R and all other variables are as defined in formula I or II or as defined in any one of the embodiments above.

In an embodiment of the present invention W is OR wherein R is H or C Calkyl and all other variables are as defined in formula I or II or as defined in any one of the embodiments above.

In another embodiment of the present invention W is OR wherein R is H and all other variables are as defined in formula I or II or as defined in any one of the embodiments above.

In another embodiment of the present invention W is OR wherein R is C Calkyl and all other variables are as defined in formula I or II or as defined in any one of the embodiments above.

In an embodiment of the present invention W is NHSOR and all other variables are as defined in formula I or II or as defined in any one of the embodiments above. In an embodiment of the present invention Ris cyclopropyl and all other variables are as defined in formula I or II or as defined in any one of the embodiments above.

In an embodiment of the present invention Ris halo C Calkynyl carbocyclyl or SR and all other variables are as defined in formula I or II or as defined in any one of the embodiments above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Ris halo C Calkynyl C carbocyclyl or SRwherein Ris C Calkyl and all other variables are as defined in formula I or II or as defined in any one of the embodiments above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Ris Br I SMe C carbocyclyl or Calkynyl and all other variables are as defined in formula I or II or as defined in any one of the embodiments above.

In an embodiment of the present invention R is H halo or C Calkyl and all other variables are as defined in formula I or II or as defined in any one of the embodiments above.

In an embodiment of the present invention R is H F Cl or methyl and all other variables are as defined in formula I or II or as defined in any one of the embodiments above.

In another embodiment of the present invention R is F or Cl and all other variables are as defined in formula I or II or as defined in any one of the embodiments above.

In an embodiment of the present invention p is 1 or 2 and all other variables are as defined in formula I or II or as defined in any one of the embodiments above.

Another embodiment of the present invention includes compounds described in EXAMPLES 5 29 and compounds below 

Compounds of formula I and II are prepared according to the procedures described below in the schemes and examples or by methods known in the art. For example compounds of formula I may be prepared according to Scheme 1.

Compounds of formula VII may be prepared from intermediates of formula III prepared according to Schemes 2 3 and 5 8 below . Compounds of formula V may be obtained from compounds of formula III by reaction with an aniline of formula IV incorporating appropriate substituents R1 in the presence of a catalyst such as tris dibenzylideneacetone dipalladium 0 or palladium II acetate a base such as potassium phosphate or cesium carbonate a ligand such as Xantphos or 2 dicyclohexylphosphino 2 6 diisopropoxy biphenyl in a suitable solvent such as toluene or DME at a temperature of from room temperature to the reflux temperature of the solvent or under microwave irradiation at a temperature of from 70 C. to 150 C. Alternatively compounds of formula V may be prepared from compounds of formula III by reaction of an aniline of formula IV in the presence of a strong base such as lithium bis trimethylsilyl amide in a solvent such as THF at temperature of from 78 C. to room temperature. Alternatively and preferentially when Ais N the aniline and compound of formula III may be reacted in a solvent such as dioxane or DMF in the presence of a base such as potassium carbonate at a temperature of from 50 C. to reflux temperature.

Compounds of formula VI can be obtained from compounds of formula V where R2 is COR3 and R3 is Me ethyl other alkyl by reaction with a base such as sodium hydroxide in a solvent such as ethanol or methanol at a temperature of from room temperature up to reflux temperature. When R3 is COBu compounds of formula VI can be obtained from compounds of formula V by treatment with an acid such as TFA neat or in the presence of a solvent such as DCM at a temperature of from 0 C. to reflux. Alternatively where R3 is Me saponification may be effected under non basic conditions by treatment with a Lewis acid such as bis tri n butyltin oxide in a solvent such as toluene at a temperature of from room temperature to reflux.

Compounds of formula VI can be reacted with a functionalised hydroxylamine of formula VIII commercially available or prepared according to Scheme 11 or an amine and a suitable coupling agent such as O 7 aza benzo triazol 1 yl N N N N tetra methyluronium hexafluoro phosphate N 3 dimethylaminopropyl N ethylcarbodiimide hydrochloride or N N dicyclohexylcarbodiimide in the presence of N hydroxy 1 2 3 benzotriazole in the presence of a suitable base such as diisopropylethylamine or triethylamine in an inert solvent such as tetrahydrofuran N N dimethylformamide or dichloromethane at a temperature of about room temperature to obtain the compounds of formula VII . Alternatively compounds of formula VII can be obtained directly from compounds of formula V by reaction with an amine or hydroxylamine DNHR VIII in the presence of a strong base such as lithium bis trimethylsilyl amide in a solvent such as THF at a temperature of from 20 C. to room temperature. Alternatively compounds of formula VII can be obtained directly from compounds of formula V by reaction with an amine or hydroxylamine DNHR VIII in the presence of a Lewis acid such as trimethyl aluminium in a solvent such as DCM at a temperature of from room temperature up to reflux temperature.

For compounds of formula VII where Ais N protecting groups NPG may be added and removed at any stage of the synthesis as required.

Compounds of formula IX may be prepared using methods described in the literature. Compounds of formula X may be prepared from compounds of formula IX by reaction with a diazotizing agent such as sodium nitrite in the presence of an acid such as acetic acid or tetrafluoroboric acid and a solvent such as water at a temperature of from 20 C. to 50 C. Compounds of formula X may be protected with a suitable protecting group to provide compounds of formula XIa and XIb by reaction with an appropriate sulfonyl chloride such as p toluenesulfonyl chloride or alkyl chloride such 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxymethyl chloride in the presence of a base such as triethylamine or sodium hydride in a solvent such as THF or DCM at a temperature of from 0 C. to room temperature. Alternatively compounds of formula X may be protected with a carbamate protecting group such as tert butyl carbamate by reaction of compounds of formula X with di tert butyl dicarbonate in the presence of a tertiary amine base such as triethylamine in a solvent such as DCM at a temperature of about room temperature. Indazoles prepared by these methods may be isolated as mixtures of isomers XIa and XIb as shown.

Alternatively compounds of formula III where Ais NH NR5 or NPG may be prepared according to Scheme 3.

Compounds of formula XII and XVII may be obtained commercially or prepared using methods described in the literature. Compounds of formula XIII and XVIII may be prepared from compounds of formula XII and XVII respectively by reaction with a sterically hindered strong base such as lithium diisopropylamide in a solvent such as THF at a temperature of from 80 C. to 0 C. followed by quench with a formylating reagent such as DMF or 1 formylpiperidine. Compounds of formula XIII and XVIII may be converted to compounds of formula XIV and XIX by treatment with hydrazine hydrate neat or in a solvent such as ethanol or DME at a temperature of from room temperature to 150 C. Alternatively compounds of formula XIV and XIX may be prepared from compounds of formula XIII and XVIII by conversion to an intermediate oxime by reaction with a hydroxylamine such as O methyl hydroxylamine in a solvent such as DME in the presence of a base such as potassium carbonate at a temperature of from room temperature to reflux. The intermediate oximes may be converted to indazoles of formula XIV and XIX without isolation by treatment with hydrazine hydrate neat or in the presence of a solvent such as DME. Compounds of formula XIV and XIX may be converted to compounds of formula XVa XVb and XXa XXb using the methods described for the conversion of compounds of formula X to compounds of formula XIa and X1b . Compounds of formula XVa XVb where Xis I Br may be converted to compounds of formula XVIa XVIb where R2 is COR3 by a number of different methods. Most preferentially compounds of formula XVIa XVIb may be prepared from compounds of formula XVa XVb via metal halogen exchange by treatment with a strong organometallic base such as n butylithium or a Grignard reagent such as isopropyl magnesium iodide in a solvent such as THF at a temperature of from 80 C. to 0 C. The intermediate aryl lithium or aryl magnesium species may be converted to compounds of formula XVIa XVIb by quench with an electrophile such as COor methyl chloroformate. Alternatively compounds of formula XVIa XVIb may be prepared from compounds of formula XVa XVb by transition metal catalyzed carbonylation using a catalyst such as palladium II acetate a base such as DIPEA a co catalyst such as DMAP in a solvent such as methanol and a carbon monoxide source such as Mo CO at a temperature of from 80 C. to reflux but preferentially using microwave irradiation at a temperature of from 150 C. to 200 C. at a pressure of from 1 10 bar. Compounds of formula XVa XVb where Xis I or Br may be converted to compounds of formula XVI where R2 is CN by reaction with an metal cyanide such as zinc cyanide in the presence of a catalyst such as tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 in a solvent such as DMF at a temperature of from 50 C. to reflux temperature or using microwave heating at a temperature of from 120 C. to 200 C.

Compounds of formula XVIII may be obtained commercially or prepared using methods described in the literature. Compounds of formula XVIII may be converted to compounds of formula XXI by reaction with an alcohol such as methanol R6 Me in the presence of an acid such as ammonium chloride at a temperature of about reflux. Compounds of formula XXI may be converted to compounds of formula XXII using the methods described for the conversion of compounds of formula III to compounds of formula V in Scheme 1. Compounds of formula XXII may be converted to compounds of formula XXIII by reaction with an acid such as hydrochloric acid in a solvent such as ether at a temperature of about room temperature. Compounds of formula XXIII may be converted to compounds of formula XXIV using the methods described for the conversion of compounds of formula XVIII to compounds of formula XIX in Scheme 3.

Compounds of formula XVIII prepared according to Scheme 3 may be converted to compounds of formula XXVI by a two step process. Compounds of formula XVIII may be reacted with benzenemethane thiol in the presence of a base such as potassium tert butoxide in a solvent such as THF at a temperature of from 0 C. to reflux. The intermediate thioethers of formula XXV may be converted to compounds of formula XXVI by treatment with sulfuryl chloride in a solvent such as dichloromethane followed by reaction with ammonia in a solvent such as ethanol THF. Alternatively compounds of formula XXVI may be prepared from compounds of formula XVIII directly by treatment with elemental sulfur ammonia or ammonium hydroxide in a solvent such as DMF or 2 methoxyethanol in the presence of a catalyst such as methylamine at a temperature of from 100 C. to reflux or a higher temperature than reflux 150 to 200 C. with the use of a reaction autoclave at a pressure of from 1 20 bar.

Protected aminopyrazoles of formula XXVII may be prepared using methods described in the literature. Compounds of formula XXVII may be reacted with a 2 alkoxy methylene malonic ester such as 2 ethoxymethylene malonic acid diethyl ester in the presence of a high boiling solvent such as diphenyl ether at a temperature of from 150 C. to 300 C. to give compounds of formula XXVIII . Compounds of formula XXVIII may be converted to compounds of formula XXIX by treatment with a halogenating agent such as phosphorous oxychloride neat or in the presence of a solvent such as toluene with or without base such as triethylamine at a temperature of from 50 C. to reflux.

Compounds of formula XXX may be obtained commercially or prepared using methods described in the literature. Compounds of formula XXX may be converted to compounds of formula XXXI by reduction of the nitro group using a catalyst such as Raney nickel under pressure of hydrogen 1 5 bar in a solvent such as THF at room temperature. Compounds of formula XXXII may be obtained from compounds of formula XXXI by treatment with a diazotizing agent such as sodium nitrite in the presence of an acid such as acetic acid or tetrafluoroboric acid and a solvent such as water at a temperature of from 20 C. to 50 C. Compounds of formula XXXII may be converted to compounds of formula XXXIII where PG is SEM SEM 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxymethyl by treatment with SEM Cl in the presence of a base such as sodium hydride in a solvent such as THF at around room temperature. Compounds of formula XXXIIIa XXXIIIb may be converted to compounds of formula XXXIVa XXXIVb by ortho lithiation with a strong base such as lithium tetramethyl piperidine in a solvent such as THF at a temperature of from 100 C. to 60 C. followed by quench with a halogenating agent such as iodine or hexachloroethane at a temperature of from 100 C. to 0 C.

Indazoles of formula XXXV may be obtained commercially or prepared according to methods described in the literature. Compounds of formula XXXVIa XXXVIb may be prepared from compounds of formula XXXV using the methods described for the conversion of compounds of formula X to compounds of formula XIa XIb shown in Scheme 2. Compounds of formula XXXVIa XXXVIb may be converted to acids of formula XXXVIIa XXXVIIb by lithium halogen exchange using a strong organometallic base such as n butyl lithium in a solvent such as THF at a temperature of from 100 C. to 60 C. followed by quench with an electrophile such as carbon dioxide at a temperature of from 78 C. to 0 C. Alternatively compounds of formula XXXVIa XXXVIb may be converted to compounds of formula XXXVIIa XXXVIIb by formation of the intermediate ester prepared by reaction of heteroaryl halide with carbon monoxide at a pressure of from 1 15 bar in the presence of a catalyst such as palladium acetate or 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene and a ligand such as triphenyl phosphine and a base such as sodium acetate in the presence of an alcohol such as methanol in a solvent such as DMF or methanol at a temperature of from 80 C. to 200 C.

Compounds of formula XXXIX may be prepared from intermediates of formula XXXVIII prepared according to Schemes 9 and 10 below . Compounds of formula XXXIX may be obtained from compounds of formula XXXVIII using the methods described for the conversion of compounds of formula III to compounds of formula V in Scheme 1. Compounds of formula XLI may be prepared from compounds of formula XXXIX and XL using the methods described for the conversion of compounds of formula V and VI to compounds of formula VII as shown in Scheme 1.

For compounds of formula XLI where Ais NH protecting groups NPG may be added and removed at any stage of the synthesis as required.

Compounds of formula XLII may be reacted with a brominating agent such as NBS in the presence of a radical initiator such as AIBN in a solvent such as carbon tetrachloride at reflux with or without activation by light to give compounds of formula XLIII . Compounds of formula XLIII may be converted to compounds of formula XLIV by treatment with trimethylamine N oxide in the presence of DMSO in a solvent such as DCM at a temperature of from room temperature to reflux. Alternatively compounds of formula XLIV can be obtained by treatment of compounds of formula XLIII with a base such as sodium hydrogencarbonate in DMSO at a temperature of about 100 C. Compounds of formula XLIV may be reacted with benzenemethane thiol in the presence of a base such as potassium tert butoxide in a solvent such as THF at a temperature of from 78 C. to 30 C. to give compounds of formula XLV . The intermediate thioethers of formula XLV may be converted to compounds of formula XLVI by treatment with sulfuryl chloride in a solvent such as dichloromethane followed by reaction with ammonia in a solvent mixture such as methanol THF. Alternatively compounds of formula XLVI may be prepared from compounds of formula XLIV directly by treatment with elemental sulfur ammonia or ammonium hydroxide in a solvent such as DMF or 2 methoxyethanol in the presence of a catalyst such as methylamine at a temperature of from 100 C. to reflux or a higher temperature than reflux 150 to 200 C. with the use of a reaction autoclave at a pressure of from 1 20 bar. Compounds of formula XLVI may be converted to compounds of formula XLVII using the methods described for the conversion of compounds of formula III to compounds of formula V in Scheme 1.

Compounds of formula L may be obtained commercially or prepared using methods described in the literature. Compounds of formula L may be nitrated to give compounds of formula LI by treatment with a mixture of sulphuric and nitric acid at a temperature of 

Hydroxylamines of formula VIIIa and VIIIb may be prepared using methods described in the literature or the synthetic route outlined in Scheme 12.

Primary or secondary alcohols of general formula LX may be prepared using methods described in the literature. The alcohols may be reacted with N hydroxy phthalimide using a phosphine and coupling reagent such as diethyl azodicarboxylate to provide compounds of general formula LXI . Compounds of general formula LXI may be deprotected using hydrazine methyl hydrazine an acid such as hydrochloric acid or a base such as aqueous ammonia to provide hydroxylamines of general formula VIII a .

Compounds of formula VIII a may be further modified by reductive amination with aldehydes or ketones using a reducing agent such as sodium triacetoxy borohydride sodium cyanoborohydride or borane pyridine in a solvent such as dichloroethane at a temperature of from ambient temperature to reflux to provide hydroxylamines of general formula VIII b . In addition compounds of formula XII a may be further modified by alkylation with an alkyl halide in the presence of a base such as triethylamine in a solvent such as dichloromethane to provide hydroxylamines of general formula VIII b .

Alkyl halides of formula LXII may be reacted with N hydroxy phthalimide in the presence of a base such as potassium carbonate in a solvent such as dimethyl sulfoxide at a temperature of from 10 C. to 50 C. Compounds of formula LXI may be converted to compounds of formula VIII a using the methods described for the conversion of compounds of formula LXI to compounds of formula VIII a in Scheme 12.

Compounds of formula LXII may be reacted with N hydroxy phthalimide in the presence of a catalytic amount of a base such as DIPEA and a co catalyst such as tetra butyl ammonium bromide in a solvent such as toluene at a temperature of form 50 C. to reflux to give compounds of formula LXIII . Compounds of formula LXIII may be converted to compounds of formula VIII a using the methods described for the conversion of compounds of formula LXI to compounds of formula VIII a in Scheme 12.

Anilines of general formula LXV used in condensations and cross coupling reactions described above may be prepared by using methods described in the literature or according to Scheme 15.

Substituted 1 chloro 4 nitro benzene may be reacted with a metal R MXn such as cyclopropyl boronic acid or hexamethyldisilazane in a solvent such as xylene using a catalyst such as tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium at a temperature of from room temperature to reflux to give compounds of formula LXIV . The nitro group may be reduced using methods described in the literature such as reaction under an atmosphere of hydrogen at a pressure of from 1 to 5 atmospheres in the presence of a catalyst such as palladium on carbon and in a solvent such as ethanol or ethyl acetate at room temperature to give compounds of formula LXV .

4 Bromo or iodo anilines of formula LXVI may be reacted with at least 2 equivalents of a strong organometallic base such as n butyllithium in a solvent such as THF at a temperature of from 100 C. to 20 C. followed by quench of the intermediate aryl lithium species with an electrophile such as trimethyl silyl chloride to give compounds of formula LXVII .

It will be appreciated that where appropriate functional groups exist compounds of formula I or any intermediates used in their preparation may be further derivatised by one or more standard synthetic methods employing substitution oxidation reduction or cleavage reactions. Particular substitution approaches include conventional alkylation arylation heteroarylation acylation sulfonylation halogenation nitration formylation and coupling procedures.

For example aryl bromide or chloride groups may be converted to aryl iodides using a Finkelstein reaction employing an iodide source such as sodium iodide a catalyst such as copper iodide and a ligand such as trans N N dimethyl 1 2 cyclohexane diamine in a solvent such as 1 4 dioxane and heating the reaction mixture at reflux temperature. Aryl trialkylsilanes may be converted to aryl iodides by treating the silane with an iodide source such as iodine monochloride in a solvent such as dichloromethane with or without Lewis acid such as silver tetrafluoroborate at a temperature from 40 C. to reflux.

In a further example primary amine NH groups may be alkylated using a reductive alkylation process employing an aldehyde or a ketone and a borohydride for example sodium triacetoxyborohydride or sodium cyanoborohydride in a solvent such as a halogenated hydrocarbon for example 1 2 dichloroethane or an alcohol such as ethanol where necessary in the presence of an acid such as acetic acid at around ambient temperature. Secondary amine NH groups may be similarly alkylated employing an aldehyde.

In a further example primary amine or secondary amine groups may be converted into amide groups NHCOR or NRCOR by acylation. Acylation may be achieved by reaction with an appropriate acid chloride in the presence of a base such as triethylamine in a suitable solvent such as dichloromethane or by reaction with an appropriate carboxylic acid in the presence of a suitable coupling agent such HATU O 7 azabenzotriazol 1 yl N N N N tetramethyluronium hexafluorophosphate in a suitable solvent such as dichloromethane. Similarly amine groups may be converted into sulfonamide groups NHSOR or NR SOR by reaction with an appropriate sulfonyl chloride in the presence of a suitable base such as triethylamine in a suitable solvent such as dichloromethane. Primary or secondary amine groups can be converted into urea groups NHCONR R or NRCONR R by reaction with an appropriate isocyanate in the presence of a suitable base such as triethylamine in a suitable solvent such as dichloromethane.

An amine NH may be obtained by reduction of a nitro NO group for example by catalytic hydrogenation using for example hydrogen in the presence of a metal catalyst for example palladium on a support such as carbon in a solvent such as ethyl acetate or an alcohol e.g. methanol. Alternatively the transformation may be carried out by chemical reduction using for example a metal e.g. tin or iron in the presence of an acid such as hydrochloric acid.

In a further example amine CHNH groups may be obtained by reduction of nitriles CN for example by catalytic hydrogenation using for example hydrogen in the presence of a metal catalyst for example palladium on a support such as carbon or Raney nickel in a solvent such as an ether e.g. a cyclic ether such as tetrahydrofuran at a temperature from 78 C. to the reflux temperature of the solvent.

In a further example amine NH groups may be obtained from carboxylic acid groups COH by conversion to the corresponding acyl azide CON Curtius rearrangement and hydrolysis of the resultant isocyanate N C O .

Aldehyde groups CHO may be converted to amine groups CHNR R by reductive amination employing an amine and a borohydride for example sodium triacetoxyborohydride or sodium cyanoborohydride in a solvent such as a halogenated hydrocarbon for example dichloromethane or an alcohol such as ethanol where necessary in the presence of an acid such as acetic acid at around ambient temperature.

In a further example aldehyde groups may be converted into alkenyl groups CH CHR by the use of a Wittig or Wadsworth Emmons reaction using an appropriate phosphorane or phosphonate under standard conditions known to those skilled in the art.

Aldehyde groups may be obtained by reduction of ester groups such as COEt or nitriles CN using diisobutylaluminium hydride in a suitable solvent such as toluene. Alternatively aldehyde groups may be obtained by the oxidation of alcohol groups using any suitable oxidising agent known to those skilled in the art.

Ester groups COR may be converted into the corresponding acid group COH by acid or base catalused hydrolysis depending on the nature of R. If R is t butyl acid catalysed hydrolysis can be achieved for example by treatment with an organic acid such as trifluoroacetic acid in an aqueous solvent or by treatment with an inorganic acid such as hydrochloric acid in an aqueous solvent.

Carboxylic acid groups COH may be converted into amides CONHR or CONR R by reaction with an appropriate amine in the presence of a suitable coupling agent such as HATU in a suitable solvent such as dichloromethane.

In a further example carboxylic acids may be homologated by one carbon i.e COH to CHCOH by conversion to the corresponding acid chloride COCl followed by Arndt Eistert synthesis.

In a further example OH groups may be generated from the corresponding ester e.g. COR or aldehyde CHO by reduction using for example a complex metal hydride such as lithium aluminium hydride in diethyl ether or tetrahydrofuran or sodium borohydride in a solvent such as methanol. Alternatively an alcohol may be prepared by reduction of the corresponding acid COH using for example lithium aluminium hydride in a solvent such as tetrahydrofuran or by using borane in a solvent such as tetrahydrofuran.

Alcohol groups may be converted into leaving groups such as halogen atoms or sulfonyloxy groups such as an alkylsulfonyloxy e.g. trifluoromethylsulfonyloxy or arylsulfonyloxy e.g. p toluenesulfonyloxy group using conditions known to those skilled in the art. For example an alcohol may be reacted with thioyl chloride in a halogenated hydrocarbon e.g. dichloromethane to yield the corresponding chloride. A base e.g. triethylamine may also be used in the reaction.

In another example alcohol phenol or amide groups may be alkylated by coupling a phenol or amide with an alcohol in a solvent such as tetrahydrofuran in the presence of a phosphine e.g. triphenylphosphine and an activator such as diethyl diisopropyl or dimethylazodicarboxylate. Alternatively alkylation may be achieved by deprotonation using a suitable base e.g. sodium hydride followed by subsequent addition of an alkylating agent such as an alkyl halide.

Aromatic halogen substituents in the compounds may be subjected to halogen metal exchange by treatment with a base for example a lithium base such as n butyl or t butyl lithium optionally at a low temperature e.g. around 78 C. in a solvent such as tetrahydrofuran and then quenched with an electrophile to introduce a desired substituent. Thus for example a formyl group may be introduced by using N N dimethylformamide as the electrophile. Aromatic halogen substituents may alternatively be subjected to metal e.g. palladium or copper catalysed reactions to introduce for example acid ester cyano amide aryl heteroaryl alkenyl alkynyl thio or amino substituents. Suitable procedures which may be employed include those described by Heck Suzuki Stille Buchwald or Hartwig.

Aromatic halogen substituents may also undergo nucleophilic displacement following reaction with an appropriate nucleophile such as an amine or an alcohol. Advantageously such a reaction may be carried out at elevated temperature in the presence of microwave irradiation.

The compounds of the present invention are tested for their capacity to inhibit MEK activity and activation primary assays and for their biological effects on growing cells secondary assays as described below. The compounds of the present invention having ICof less than 5 M more preferably less than 0.1 M most preferably less than 0.01 M in the MEK activity assay of Example 1 ICof less than 5 M more preferably less than 1 M even more preferably less than 0.1 M most preferably less than 0.01 M in the MEK activation assay of Example 2 ECof less than 10 M more preferably less than 1 M even more preferably less than 0.5 M most preferably less than 0.1 M in the cell proliferation assay of Example 3 and or ECof less than 10 M more preferably less than 1 M even more preferably less than 0.5 M most preferably less than 0.1 M in the ERK phosphorylation assay of Example 4 are useful as MEK inhibitors.

The present invention includes a composition e.g. a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of formula I or II and or solvates and or salts thereof and a carrier a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier . The present invention also includes a composition e.g. a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of formula I or II and or solvates and or salts thereof and a carrier a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier further comprising a second chemotherapeutic and or a second anti inflammatory agent such as those described herein. The present compositions are useful for inhibiting abnormal cell growth or treating a hyperproliferative disorder in a mammal e.g. human . The present compositions are also useful for treating inflammatory diseases in a mammal e.g. human .

The present compounds and compositions are also useful for treating an autoimmune disease destructive bone disorder proliferative disorders infectious disease viral disease fibrotic disease or neurodegenerative disease in a mammal e.g. human . Examples of such diseases disorders include but are not limited to diabetes and diabetic complications diabetic retinopathy retinopathy of prematurity age related macular degeneration hemangioma idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis rhinitis and atopic dermatitis renal disease and renal failure polycystic kidney disease congestive heart failure neurofibromatosis organ transplant rejection cachexia stroke septic shock heart failure organ transplant rejection Alzheimer s disease chronic or neuropathic pain and viral infections such as HIV hepatitis B virus HBV human papilloma virus HPV cytomegalovirus CMV and Epstein Barr virus EBV . Chronic pain for purposes of the present invention includes but is not limited to idiopathic pain and pain associated with chronic alcoholism vitamin deficiency uremia hypothyroidism inflammation arthritis and post operative pain. Neuropathic pain is associated with numerous conditions which include but are not limited to inflammation postoperative pain phantom limb pain burn pain gout trigeminal neuralgia acute herpetic and postherpetic pain causalgia diabetic neuropathy plexus avulsion neuroma vasculitis viral infection crush injury constriction injury tissue injury limb amputation arthritis pain and nerve injury between the peripheral nervous system and the central nervous system.

The present compounds and compositions are also useful for treating pancreatitis or kidney disease including proliferative glomerulonephritis and diabetes induced renal disease in a mammal e.g. human .

The present compounds and compositions are also useful for the prevention of blastocyte implantation in a mammal e.g. human .

The present invention includes a method of inhibiting abnormal cell growth or treating a hyperproliferative disorder in a mammal e.g. human comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula I or II and or solvates and or salts thereof or a composition thereof. Also included in the present invention is a method of treating an inflammatory disease in a mammal e.g. human comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula I or II and or solvates and or salts thereof or a composition thereof.

The present invention includes a method of inhibiting abnormal cell growth or treating a hyperproliferative disorder in a mammal e.g. human comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula I or II and or solvates and or salts thereof or a composition thereof in combination with a second chemotherapeutic agent such as those described herein. The present invention also includes a method of treating an inflammatory disease in a mammal e.g. human comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula I or II and or solvates and or salts thereof or a composition thereof in combination with a second anti inflammatory agent such as those described herein.

The present invention includes a method of treating an autoimmune disease destructive bone disorder proliferative disorders infectious disease viral disease fibrotic disease or neurodegenerative disease in a mammal e.g. human comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula I or II and or solvates and salts thereof or a composition thereof and optionally further comprising a second therapeutic agent. Examples of such diseases disorders include but are not limited to diabetes and diabetic complications diabetic retinopathy retinopathy of prematurity age related macular degeneration hemangioma idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis rhinitis and atopic dermatitis renal disease and renal failure polycystic kidney disease congestive heart failure neurofibromatosis organ transplant rejection cachexia stroke septic shock heart failure organ transplant rejection Alzheimer s disease chronic or neuropathic pain and viral infections such as HIV hepatitis B virus HBV human papilloma virus HPV cytomegalovirus CMV and Epstein Barr virus EBV .

The present invention includes a method of treating pancreatitis or kidney disease including proliferative glomerulonephritis and diabetes induced renal disease in a mammal e.g. human comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula I or II and or solvates and salts thereof or a composition thereof and optionally further comprising a second therapeutic agent.

The present invention includes a method for preventing of blastocyte implantation in a mammal e.g. human comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula I or II and or solvates and salts thereof or a composition thereof and optionally further comprising a second therapeutic agent.

The present invention includes a method of using the present compounds for in vitro in situ and in vivo diagnosis or treatment of mammalian cells organisms or associated pathological conditions.

It is also believed that the compounds of the present invention can render abnormal cells more sensitive to treatment with radiation for purposes of killing and or inhibiting the growth of such cells. Accordingly this invention further relates to a method for sensitizing abnormal cells in a mammal e.g. human to treatment with radiation which comprises administering to said mammal an amount of a compound of formula I or II and or solvates and salts thereof or a composition thereof which amount is effective is sensitizing abnormal cells to treatment with radiation.

Administration of the compounds of the present invention hereinafter the active compound s can be effected by any method that enables delivery of the compounds to the site of action. These methods include oral routes intraduodenal routes parenteral injection including intravenous subcutaneous intramuscular intravascular or infusion topical inhalation and rectal administration.

The amount of the active compound administered will be dependent on the subject being treated the severity of the disorder or condition the rate of administration the disposition of the compound and the discretion of the prescribing physician. However an effective dosage is in the range of about 0.001 to about 100 mg per kg body weight per day preferably about 1 to about 35 mg kg day in single or divided doses. For a 70 kg human this would amount to about 0.05 to 7 g day preferably about 0.05 to about 2.5 g day. In some instances dosage levels below the lower limit of the aforesaid range may be more than adequate while in other cases still larger doses may be employed without causing any harmful side effect provided that such larger doses are first divided into several small doses for administration throughout the day.

The active compound may be applied as a sole therapy or in combination with one or more chemotherapeutic or anti inflammatory agents for example those described herein. Such conjoint treatment may be achieved by way of the simultaneous sequential or separate dosing of the individual components of treatment.

The pharmaceutical composition may for example be in a form suitable for oral administration as a tablet capsule pill powder sustained release formulations solution suspension for parenteral injection as a sterile solution suspension or emulsion for topical administration as an ointment or cream or for rectal administration as a suppository. The pharmaceutical composition may be in unit dosage forms suitable for single administration of precise dosages. The pharmaceutical composition will include a conventional pharmaceutical carrier or excipient and a compound according to the invention as an active ingredient. In addition it may include other medicinal or pharmaceutical agents carriers adjuvants etc.

Exemplary parenteral administration forms include solutions or suspensions of active compounds in sterile aqueous solutions for example aqueous propylene glycol or dextrose solutions. Such dosage forms can be suitably buffered if desired.

Suitable pharmaceutical carriers include inert diluents or fillers water and various organic solvents. The pharmaceutical compositions may if desired contain additional ingredients such as flavorings binders excipients and the like. Thus for oral administration tablets containing various excipients such as citric acid may be employed together with various disintegrants such as starch alginic acid and certain complex silicates and with binding agents such as sucrose gelatin and acacia. Additionally lubricating agents such as magnesium stearate sodium lauryl sulfate and talc are often useful for tableting purposes. Solid compositions of a similar type may also be employed in soft and hard filled gelatin capsules. Preferred materials therefore include lactose or milk sugar and high molecular weight polyethylene glycols. When aqueous suspensions or elixirs are desired for oral administration the active compound therein may be combined with various sweetening or flavoring agents coloring matters or dyes and if desired emulsifying agents or suspending agents together with diluents such as water ethanol propylene glycol glycerin or combinations thereof.

Methods of preparing various pharmaceutical compositions with a specific amount of active compound are known or will be apparent to those skilled in this art. For examples see Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences Mack Publishing Company Ester Pa. 15.sup.th Edition 1975 .

High Pressure Liquid Chromatography Mass Spectrometry LCMS experiments to determine retention times R and associated mass ions were performed using one of the following methods.

Method A Experiments performed on a Waters Micromass ZQ quadrupole mass spectrometer linked to a Hewlett Packard HP1100 LC system with diode array detector. This system uses a Higgins Clipeus 5 micron C18 100 30 mm column and a 1 ml minute flow rate. The initial solvent system was 95 water containing 0.1 formic acid solvent A and 5 acetonitrile containing 0.1 formic acid solvent B for the first minute followed by a gradient up to 5 solvent A and 95 solvent B over the next 14 minutes. The final solvent system was held constant for a further 5 minutes.

Method B Experiments performed on a Waters Platform LC quadrupole mass spectrometer linked to a Hewlett Packard HP1100 LC system with diode array detector and 100 position autosampler using a Phenomenex Luna C18 2 30 46 mm column and a 2 ml minute flow rate. The solvent system was 95 water containing 0.1 formic acid solvent A and 5 acetonitrile containing 0.1 formic acid solvent B for the first 0.50 minutes followed by a gradient up to 5 solvent A and 95 solvent B over the next 4 minutes. The final solvent system was held constant for a further 0.50 minutes.

Method C Experiments performed on a PE Sciex API 150 EX quadrupole mass spectrometer linked to a Shimadzu LC 10AD LC system with diode array detector and 225 position autosampler using a Kromasil C18 50 x 4.6 mm column and a 3 ml minute flow rate. The solvent system was a gradient starting with 100 water with 0.05 TFA solvent A and 0 acetonitrile with 0.0375 TFA solvent B ramping up to 10 solvent A and 90 solvent B over 4 minutes. The final solvent system was held constant for a further 0.50 minutes.

Microwave experiments were carried out using a Personal Chemistry Emrys Iniatiator or Optimizer which uses a single mode resonator and dynamic field tuning both of which give reproducibility and control. Temperature from 40 250 C. can be achieved and pressures of up to 20bar can be reached.

Constitutively activated human mutant MEK1 expressed in insect cells is used as source of enzymatic activity at a final concentration in the kinase assay of 15 nM.

The assay is carried out for 30 minutes in the presence of 50 M ATP using recombinant GST ERK1 produced in as substrate. Phosphorylation of the substrate is detected and quantified using HTRF reagents supplied by Cisbio. These consist of an anti GST antibody conjugated to allophycocyanin XL665 and an anti phospho Thr202 Tyr204 ERK antibody conjugated to europium cryptate. These are used at a final concentration of 4 g ml and 0.84 g ml respectively. The anti phospho antibody recognises ERK1 dually phosphorylated on Thr202 and Tyr204. When both antibodies are bound to ERK1 i.e. when the substrate is phosphorylated energy transfer from the cryptate to the allophycocyanin occurs following excitation at 340 nm resulting in fluorescence being emitted that is proportional to the amount of phosphorylated substrate produced. Fluorescence is detected using a multiwell fluorimeter.

Compounds are diluted in DMSO prior to addition to assay buffer and the final DMSO concentration in the assay is 1 .

The ICis defined as the concentration at which a given compound achieves 50 inhibition of control. ICvalues are calculated using the XLfit software package version 2.0.5 .

Title compounds of EXAMPLES 5 9 12 13 16 20 23 and 25 27 exhibited an ICof less than 0.1 M in the assay described in EXAMPLE 1. Title compounds of EXAMPLES 10 11 15 17 and 24 exhibited an ICof between 0.1 and 0.6 M in the assay described in EXAMPLE 1.

Constitutively activated bRaf mutant expressed in insect cells is used as source of enzymatic activity.

The assay is carried out for 30 minutes in the presence of 200 M ATP using recombinant GST MEK1 produced in as substrate. Phosphorylation of the substrate is detected and quantified using HTRF and reagents are supplied by Cisbio. These consist of an anti GST antibody conjugated to allophycocyanin XL665 and an anti phospho Ser217 Ser221 MEK antibody conjugated to europium cryptate. The anti phospho antibody recognises MEK dually phosphorylated on Ser217 and Ser221 or singly phosphorylated on Ser217. When both antibodies are bound to MEK i.e. when the substrate is phosphorylated energy transfer from the cryptate to the allophycocyanin occurs following excitation at 340 nm resulting in fluorescence being emitted that is proportional to the amount of phosphorylated substrate produced. Fluorescence is detected using a multi well fluorimeter.

Compounds are diluted in DMSO prior to addition to assay buffer and the final DMSO concentration in the assay is 1 .

The ICis defined as the concentration at which a given compound achieves 50 inhibition of control. ICvalues are calculated using the XLfit software package version 2.0.5 .

Both cell lines are maintained in DMEM F12 1 1 media Gibco supplemented with 10 FCS at 37 C. in a 5 COhumidified incubator.

Cells are seeded in 96 well plates at 2 000 cells well and after 24 hours they are exposed to different concentrations of compounds in 0.83 DMSO. Cells are grown for a further 72h and an equal volume of CellTiter Glo reagent Promega is added to each well. This lyses the cells and generates a luminescent signal proportional to the amount of ATP released and therefore proportional to the number of cells in the well that can be detected using a multi well luminometer.

The ECis defined as the concentration at which a given compound achieves 50 inhibition of control. ICvalues are calculated using the XLfit software package version 2.0.5 .

In this assay title compounds of EXAMPLE 5 7 9 14 16 17 20 22 and 24 27 exhibited an ECof less than 0.5 M in the HCT116 cell line. The title compound of EXAMPLE 8 exhibited an ECof less than 0.6 M in the HCT116 cell line. Title compounds of EXAMPLES 5 12 14 16 17 and 20 27 exhibited an ECof less than 0.1 M in the A375 cell line.

Both cell lines are maintained in DMEM F12 1 1 media Gibco supplemented with 10 FCS at 37 C. in a 5 COhumidified incubator.

Cells are seeded in 96 well plates at 2 000 cells well and after 24 h they are exposed to different concentrations of compounds in 0.83 DMSO. Cells are grown for a further 2 h or 24 h fixed with formaldehyde 2 final and permeabilised with methanol. Following blocking with TBST 3 BSA fixed cells are incubated with primary antibody anti phospho ERK from rabbit over night at 4 C. Cells are incubated with Propidium Iodide DNA fluorescent dye and detection of cellular p ERK is performed using an anti rabbit secondary antibody conjugated to the fluorescent Alexa Fluor 488 dye Molecular probes . The fluorescence is analysed using the Acumen Explorer TTP Labtech a laser scanning microplate cytometer and the Alexa Fluor 488 signal is normalised to the PI signal proportional to cell number .

The ECis defined as the concentration at which a given compound achieves a signal half way between the baseline and the maximum response. ECvalues are calculated using the XLfit software package version 2.0.5 .

In this assay title compounds of EXAMPLES 5 14 16 17 20 22 and 24 27 exhibited an ECof less than 0.1 M in the HCT116 cell line. Title compounds of EXAMPLES 6 12 14 17 and 20 27 exhibited an ECof less than 0.1 M in the A375 cell line.

To a solution of S ethyl lactate 37.4 g 0.32 mol in DCM 200 mL was added imidazole 25.75 g 0.38 mol and TBSCl 50 g 0.33 mol . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. The reaction was diluted with water and extracted with DCM 2 50 mL the combined organic extracts washed with brine dried MgSO and concentrated in vacuo to give the title product as a colourless oil 100 . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 4.21 1 H q J 6.73 Hz 4.14 4.01 2H m 1.29 3H d J 6.79 Hz 1.18 3H t J 7.09 Hz 0.80 9H s 0.01 6H s .

A 2M solution of LiBH 2.77 g 0.13 mol in THF 60 mL was added dropwise to a solution of S 2 tert butyl dimethyl silanyloxy propionic acid ethyl ester 22.75 g 0.10 mol and methanol 5.15 mL 0.13 mol in diethyl ether 500 mL at 0 C. The reaction mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 1 hour and then at room temperature for 1.5 hours before cooling to 0 C. and carefully quenching with water. The reaction mixture was filtered and the filtrate extracted with diethyl ether 2 50 mL the combined organic extracts were washed with brine dried MgSO and concentrated in vacuo to give the title product as a colourless oil 18.2 g 97 . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 3.86 3.77 1H m 3.45 3.37 1H m 3.31 3.22 1H m 1.96 1.85 1H m 1.03 3H d J 6.23 Hz 0.81 9H s 0.00 6H s .

To a suspension of S 2 tert butyl dimethyl silanyloxy propan 1 ol 53.0 g 0.28 mol N hydroxyphthalimide 47.0 g 0.29 mol and triphenylphosphine 77.9 g 0.30 mol in THF 200 ml at 0 C. was added dropwise DIAD 56.8 ml 0.29 mol . During the addition the reagents dissolved and the solution turned a dark red colour before fading to pale yellow colour on completion of the addition. The reaction mixture was stirred and allowed to warm to room temperature overnight. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo and the resultant residue re dissolved in diethyl ether. The suspension was filtered and the filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to yield the crude title compound as a pale yellow oil. The material was used without further purification in the subsequent step.

To a cold solution of crude 2 S 2 tert butyl dimethyl silanyloxy propoxy isoindole 1 3 dione 0.28 mol in DCM 200 ml at 0 C. was added methyl hydrazine 14.74 mol 0.28 mol . The reaction mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 30 minutes then filtered and the filtrate concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was subjected to distillation b.p. 108 112 C. at 2 10 mbar to yield the title compound as a colourless oil. 42.63 g 74 from ethyl lactate . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 5.36 2H s 3.95 1H m 3.55 3.41 2H m 1.04 3H d J 6.28 Hz 0.81 9H s 0.02 6H m .

O S 2 tert Butyl dimethyl silanyloxy propyl hydroxylamine 6.56 g 31.9 mmol was dissolved in IMS 20 mL and 12N HCl added 2.79 mL 33 5 mmol the reaction mixture stirred at room temperature for 1.5 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo and the resultant residue crystallised from IPA diethyl ether 1 1 to give the title compound as fine white needles 3.2 g 79 . H NMR DMSO d 400 MHz 10.93 3H s 3.94 3.80 2H m 2.51 2.48 1H m 1.07 1.02 3H d J 6.01 Hz .

To a suspension of N hydroxyphthalimide 250 g 1.53 mol toluene 450 mL tetrabutylammonium bromide 24.7 g 76.6 mmol and S propylene oxide 214.7 mL 3.07 mol was added DIPEA 13.3 mL 76.6 mmol . The reaction mixture was heated under nitrogen at reflux for 3 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo to obtain a yellow solid. The solid was dissolved in hot ethyl acetate and loaded onto a plug of flash silica 600 g and the product eluted with diethyl ether 4 L . The ether solution was concentrated in vacuo to yield a pale yellow solid. The solid was dissolved in ethyl acetate 150 mL at 75 C. and cyclohexane 300 mL added. The solution was allowed to cool down to room temperature with stirring causing a white solid to crystallise from the solution. The crystals were collected by filtration washing with ethyl acetate hexane 1 2 . The solid was recrystallised using the conditions described previously to yield the product as a white crystalline solid 233 g 69 . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 7.89 7.83 2H m 7.81 7.75 2H m 4.22 1H dd J 11.5 2.3 Hz 4.11 4.02 1H m 3.93 1H dd J 11.3 9.2 Hz 3.79 1H d J 3.2 Hz 1.18 3H d J 6.4 Hz .

A solution of 2 S 2 hydroxypropoxy isoindole 1 3 dione 20 g 90.4 mmol and aqueous hydrochloric acid 150 mL 6N 0.9 mol was stirred at room temperature for 16 hours giving a white suspension. The reaction mixture was filtered and the filtrate concentrated in vacuo to give a white solid. The resultant residue was crystallised from hot IPA cyclohexane 10 mL 20 mL to give the product S 1 aminooxypropan 2 ol hydrochloride as a white crystalline solid 7.78 g 67 . H NMR DMSO d 400 MHz 10.82 2H bs 3.92 3.78 3H m 1.06 3H d J 6.2 Hz .

To a solution of N Boc hydroxylamine 5.2 g 39.05 mmol in ethanol 100 mL was added potassium hydroxide 2.63 g 46.86 mmol the mixture stirred at room temperature until a solution was formed. 2 Bromoisobutyric acid ethyl ester 6.87 mL 46.9 mmol was added and the reaction mixture heated at reflux for 18 hours. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature then filtered and the filtrate was concentrated in vacuo. The resultant oily residue was partitioned between water 75 mL and diethyl ether and the aqueous fraction was extracted with diethyl ether 2 100 mL . The combined organic extracts were dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to give the title compound as a clear oil 9.5 g 99 . LCMS method C R 2.55 min M H 248. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 4.20 q 2H 1.50 s 6H 1.49 s 9H 1.30 t 3H .

To a solution of 2 N Boc aminooxy isobutyric acid ethyl ester 2.35 g 9.5 mmol in anhydrous ethyl ether 100 mL at 0 C. under nitrogen was added 1.0 M lithiumtetrahydroaluminate in tetrahydrofuran 17.1 mL 17 mmol and the reaction mixture stirred at 0 C. for 5 hours. The reaction mixture was quenched with water 25 mL and allowed to warm to room temperature. The suspension was filtered and the residue washed with diethyl ether and layers separated. The organic extract was dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to give the title compound as a white solid 1.94 g 99 . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 3.40 s 2H 1.50 s 9H 1.20 s 6H .

To a solution of 2 N Boc aminooxy 2 methylpropan 1 ol 1.94 g 9.45 mmol in anhydrous dichloromethane 10 mL was added 4 M HCl in dioxane 47.3 mL 200 mmol and the mixture stirred at room temperature for 1 hour. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo and the residue triturated with ether 3 30 mL to give the title compound as an white solid 1.10 g 82 . H NMR DMSO d 400 MHz 3.58 s 2H 3.48 s 2H 1.34 s 6H .

4 Chloro 2 fluoro 1 nitro benzene 97.2 g 0.55 mol was dissolved in xylenes 208 ml and hexamethyldisilane 306 g 2.78 mol was added. Argon was bubbled through the mixture for 20 minutes then Pd PPh 16.2 g 14 mmol was added and the mixture was heated under continuous flow of argon at 150 C. for 1 hour. A balloon filled with argon was then fitted and the mixture was heated at 150 C. for a further 60 hours. After cooling the mixture was diluted with EtO and filtered through a 4 cm silica pad. The filter cake was washed with further EtO and the combined organic residues were concentrated in vacuo. Purification of the resultant residue by flash chromatography SiO eluent 98 1 1 pentane CHCl EtO gave 76.7 g of the title compound as an orange oil and also mixed fractions. The mixed fractions were combined and concentrated then distilled 110 C. 6 mbar to give a further 7.2 g of the title compound overall 83.9 g 71 . H NMR DMSO d 0.30 9H s 7.56 1H d J 8.02 Hz 7.67 1H dd J 11.49 1.14 Hz 8.10 1H t J 7.66 Hz .

A slurry of 10 wt. palladium on carbon 4.0 g in IMS 25 mL was added to a solution of 3 fluoro 4 nitro phenyl trimethylsilane 62.0 g 0.29 mol in IMS 250 mL and the reaction mixture flushed with nitrogen five times then hydrogen three times. The reaction mixture was then stirred under 3 bar pressure of hydrogen at room temperature for 4 hours. The reaction mixture was then purged with nitrogen again before filtering through a pad of Celite with ethyl acetate washings. The filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure to give the title compound as a light brown oil 53.0 g quantitative . 1H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 7.16 7.09 1H m 7.10 1H d J 7.75 Hz 6.81 1H t J 8.16 Hz 3.78 2H s 0.26 9H s .

To a solution of 4 bromo 2 fluoro phenylamine 114 g 0.6 mol in anhydrous THF 750 mL under inert atmosphere at 78 C. was added a 1.6M solution of nBuLi in hexanes 1500 mL 2.4 mol dropwise keeping the internal temperature below 60 C. The reaction mixture was treated dropwise with TMSCl 256 mL 2.0 mol keeping the internal temperature below 60 C. The reaction mixture was allowed to warm to 0 C. over a 1 hour period and poured into ice cold 2M HCl ca 1 L . The mixture was vigorously stirred for 10 min then the organic layer was separated washed with water followed by a saturated solution of potassium carbonate dried NaSO filtered and concentrated to give the title compound as a light brown oil 89 g 81 .

To a solution of 3 fluoro 4 nitrophenol 12.5 g 80 mmol and trifluoromethane sulfonic anhydride 26.8 mL 160 mmol in DCM 300 mL at 0 C. was added triethylamine 44.6 mL 320 mmol dropwise. The reaction mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 2 hours then allowed to warm to room temperature and stirred for 18 hours. The reaction was quenched by the addition of water and the mixture extracted with DCM. The organic layer was separated washed with water and then dried MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was subjected to flash chromatography Si PPC gradient 0 to 40 ethyl acetate in cyclohexane to give the title compound as a yellow oil 12.8 g 56 yield . H NMR DMSO d 400 MHz 8.39 1 H t J 8.83 Hz 8.12 1 H dd J 11.09 2.65 Hz 7.67 1 H ddd J 9.20 2.62 1.52 Hz .

A stirred suspension of trifluoro methanesulfonic acid 3 fluoro 4 nitro phenyl ester 5.6 g 19 mmol cyclopropyl boronic acid 2.09 g 23.3 mmol Pd dppf Cl 1.24 g 1.5 mmol and 2M aqueous cesium carbonate 30 mL 60 mmol in toluene 20 mL was degassed before being heated at 90 C. under an argon atmosphere for 2.5 hours. The reaction mixture was allowed to cool to room temperature before filtering through a pad of Celite washing with ethyl acetate. The filtrate was washed water brine and then dried MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was subjected to flash chromatography Si PPC gradient 0 30 ethyl acetate in pentane to give the title compound as a yellow solid 2.79 g 81 . H NMR DMSO d 400 MHz 8.03 1 H t J 8.39 Hz 7.28 1 H dd J 13.19 1.91 Hz 7.16 1 H dd J 8.61 1.90 Hz 2.14 2.05 1 H m 1.21 1.05 2 H m 0.92 0.82 2 H m .

A slurry of palladium on carbon 200 mg 10 wt. in IMS was added to a degassed solution of 4 cyclopropyl 2 fluoro 1 nitro benzene 1.45 g 8 mmol in IMS 50 mL the atmosphere was evacuated and back filled with nitrogen then re evacuated and back filled with hydrogen. The reaction mixture was stirred under 1 atmosphere pressure of hydrogen at room temperature for 24 hours before filtering through a pad of Celite then washing with ethyl acetate. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to give the title compound as a pale purple residue 1.19 g 98 . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 6.72 6.63 3 H m 3.56 2 H s 1.83 1.75 1 H m 0.93 0.82 2 H m 0.59 0.54 2 H m .

To a suspension of 4 amino 2 chloro 3 methyl benzoic acid 0.64 g 3.45 mmol in toluene 10 mL and methanol 10 mL at 0 C. was added drop wise trimethylsilyldiazomethane 3.45 mL 2 M in hexane 6.90 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 30 min during which the reagents dissolved. The reaction mixture was quenched by the addition of acetic acid 1 mL then washed with aqueous saturated sodium bicarbonate solution 10 mL and the aqueous fraction extracted twice with ethyl acetate 2 10 mL . The combined organic extracts were washed with brine 20 mL dried MgSO and concentrated in vacuo to give the title compound as a beige solid 0.66 g 96 . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 2.26 3H s 3.86 3H s 6.55 1H d J 8.8 Hz 7.60 1H d J 8.8 Hz .

To a solution of 4 amino 2 chloro 3 methyl benzoic acid methyl ester 5.29 g 26.5 mmol in acetic acid 100 mL was added isoamylnitrite 3.9 mL 29.2 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 30 minutes then heated at reflux for 3 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo and the resultant residue subjected to flash chromatography SiO gradient 0 100 ethyl acetate in cyclohexane to yield the title compound as an off white solid 2.26 g 40 . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 3.97 3H s 7.42 1H d J 8.8 Hz 7.95 1H d J 8.8 Hz 8.29 1H s .

To a solution of 4 chloro 1H indazole 5 carboxylic acid methyl ester 1 g 4.74 mmol in THF 20 mL was added p toluenesulfonyl chloride 1.0 g 5 2 mmol triethylamine 0.8 mL 5.7 mmol and DMAP catalytic . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 16 hours during which a white precipitate formed. The reaction mixture was diluted with water and extracted with ethyl acetate 3 20 mL . The combined organic fractions were washed with brine 20 mL dried MgSO and concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was subjected to flash chromatography SiO gradient 0 80 ethyl acetate in cyclohexane to yield the title compounds as an off white solid 1.51 g 82 . H NMR showed the product to be a 1 1 mixture of isomers. LCMS Method B R 4.02 min M H 363.

To a suspension of 2 bromo 4 fluoro benzoic acid 28.5 g 0.13 mol in dichloromethane 500 mL at room temperature was added oxalyl chloride 11.35 mL 0.26 mmol followed by DMF 0.05 mL catalytic CARE vigorous gas evolution and the reaction mixture stirred for 3 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo and the residue dissolved in DCM 500 mL before treatment with a solution of tert butanol 28.5 g 0.26 mol and pyridine 20.5 g 0.26 mol . The resultant mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 days before it was diluted with DCM and washed 1M aqueous sodium hydroxide water 0.1M aqueous HCl water dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to give a yellow oil. The crude oil was subjected to flash chromatography Si PPC gradient 0 to 20 ethyl acetate in cyclohexane to give the title compound as a colourless oil 15.2 g 42 . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 7.76 7.73 1H m 7.37 1H dd J 8.36 2.53 Hz 7.05 1H ddd J 8.70 7.73 2.53 Hz 1.60 9 H s .

To a solution of 2 bromo 4 fluoro benzoic acid tert butyl ester 10.0 g 36 mmol in THF 100 mL at 78 C. under an atmosphere of nitrogen was added lithium diisopropylamide 1.8M solution 20 mL 36 mmol dropwise. The reaction mixture was stirred for 1.25 hours before adding DMF 10 mL then stirred for a further 10 minutes before quenching with acetic acid 3 mL . The products were partitioned between ethyl acetate and water the organic layer was separated washed with brine dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to give a yellow oil which crystallized on standing. The crude product was triturated in cyclohexane to give the title compound as a yellow solid 6.8 g 62 . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 10.38 1H s 7.80 7.73 1H m 7.17 1H t J 9.09 Hz 1.62 9H s .

A bi phasic solution of 2 bromo 4 fluoro 3 formyl benzoic acid tert butyl ester 4.25 g 14 mmol DME 25 mL and hydrazine hydrate 15 mL was heated at 90 C. for 1 hour. After cooling the products were partitioned between ethyl acetate and water the aqueous layer extracted with ethyl acetate and the combined organic extracts dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to give the title compound as a tan solid 4.1 g 100 . LCMS method B R 3.63 min M CHCN H 338 340 M H 295 297.

To a solution of 4 bromo 1H indazole 5 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester 3.0 g 10 mmol and triethylamine 1.53 mL 11 mmol in DCM 30 mL was added di tert butyl dicarbonate 2.4 g 11 mmol and the reaction mixture stirred at room temperature for 4 hours. The reaction mixture was diluted with DCM washed saturated aqueous NaHCO water dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to give a yellow orange oil which crystallized on standing. The crude product was triturated in pentane to give the title compound as an off white yellow solid 1.8 g 45 . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 8.29 1H s 8.18 8.10 1H m 7.92 1H d J 8.74 Hz 1.70 9H s 1.63 9H s .

To a solution of potassium tert butoxide 318 mg 2.84 mmol in THF 20 mL under an atmosphere of nitrogen was added benzene methane thiol 332 L 2.84 mmol and the mixture stirred at room temperature for 10 minutes. 2 Bromo 4 fluoro 3 formyl benzoic acid tert butyl 860 mg 2.84 mmol was added and stirring continued for 30 minutes before quenching with a saturated aqueous solution of NHCl. The products were partitioned between ethyl acetate and water the organic layer separated washed with brine dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to give the title compound as a yellow solid 1.15 g 100 . H NMR CDCl 10.57 1H s 7.61 1H d J 8.44 Hz 7.40 7.25 6H m 4.17 2H s 1.61 9 H s .

To a cold 0 C. solution of 4 benzylsulfanyl 2 bromo 3 formyl benzoic acid tert butyl ester 1.15 g 2.82 mmol in DCM 15 mL was added sulfuryl chloride 453 L 5.64 mmol and the reaction mixture stirred at room temperature for 18 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and the residue azeotroped with THF 2 and then dissolved in THF 7 mL . The resultant solution was cooled to 0 5 C. and a solution of ammonia in methanol 2M 15 mL was added dropwise. The reaction mixture was stirred cold for 30 minutes then at room temperature for 18 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and the residue partially dissolved in diethyl ether. The ethereal solution was concentrated in vacuo and the residue subjected to flash chromatography Si PPC gradient 0 10 diethyl ether in pentane to give the title compound as a colourless oil 523 mg 59 . H NMR CDCl 9.13 1H d J 0.88 Hz 7.89 1H dd J 8.36 0.97 Hz 7.83 1H d J 8.37 Hz 1.61 9 H s .

A mixture of 2 3 difluoro 4 methyl benzoic acid 20.0 g 116 mmol di tert butyl dicarbonate 25.0 g 116 mmol and DMAP 2.0 g 16.4 mmol in tert butanol 500 mL was stirred at 45 C. for 5 hours before being concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was triturated in EtO and filtered. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to give a residue which was partitioned between ethyl acetate and a 1M aqueous solution of hydrochloric acid. The organic layer was separated and washed with a saturated aqueous solution of sodium hydrogen carbonate followed by brine dried NaSO filtered and evaporated in vacuo to give the title compound as a colourless oil 17.3 g 65 . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 7.51 1 H ddd J 8.3 6.6 1.9 Hz 6.95 1 H m 2.33 3 H d J 2.3 Hz 1.59 9 H s .

A solution of 2 3 difluoro 4 methyl benzoic acid tert butyl ester 17.3 g 75.9 mmol and N bromosuccinimide 13.5 g 75.9 mmol in carbon tetrachloride 250 mL was degassed for 10 minutes. AIBN 1.2 g 7.32 mmol was added and the reaction mixture was stirred at reflux for 18 hours before being cooled to room temperature and filtered. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to give a residue which was subjected to flash chromatography Si PPC gradient 0 to 10 TBME in cyclohexane to afford the title compound as a colourless oil 16.7 g contaminated by 25 of starting material . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 7.61 1 H ddd J 8.3 6.4 2.1 Hz 7.18 1 H ddd J 8.1 6.4 1.8 Hz 4.49 2 H d J 1.3 Hz 1.59 9 H s .

To a solution of 4 bromomethyl 2 3 difluoro benzoic acid tert butyl ester 12.9 g 42.1 mmol in DMSO 80 mL and DCM 40 mL at 0 C. was added trimethylamine N oxide 3.4 g 45.3 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 18 hours before being concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was partitioned between iced water and ethyl acetate. The organic layer was separated and washed with brine twice dried NaSO filtered and evaporated in vacuo. The resultant residue which was subjected to flash chromatography Si PPC gradient 0 to 10 TBME in cyclohexane to afford the title compound as a white solid 4.34 g 43 . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 10.38 1 H d J 0.8 Hz 7.71 1 H dddd J 7.4 5.6 1.7 0.8 Hz 7.63 1 H ddd J 7.4 5.6 1.5 Hz 1.61 9 H s .

To a solution of potassium tert butoxide 2.0 g 17.9 mmol in anhydrous THF 80 mL was added benzyl mercaptan 2.1 mL 17.9 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 5 minutes before being cooled to 30 C. A solution of 2 3 difluoro 4 formyl benzoic acid tert butyl ester 4.34 g 17.9 mmol in anhydrous THF 20 mL was added dropwise over 15 minutes and the resultant mixture was stirred at 30 C. for 30 minutes before being quenched by addition of water and extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic layer was separated washed with water followed by brine dried NaSO filtered and evaporated in vacuo to give the title compound as a yellow oil 6.2 g 100 . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 10.20 1 H d J 0.6 Hz 7.84 1 H ddd J 8.0 6.8 0.7 Hz 7.59 1 H dd J 8.0 0.9 Hz 7.19 3 H m 7.05 2 H m 4.07 2 H s 1.63 9 H s .

To a solution of 3 benzylsulfanyl 2 fluoro 4 formyl benzoic acid tert butyl ester 6.20 g 17.9 mmol in DCM 100 mL was added sulfuryl chloride 2.9 mL 35.8 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour before being concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was azeotroped with toluene twice and then taken up in THF 50 mL . The resultant solution was cooled to 0 C. and a 2M solution of ammonia in methanol 100 mL was added. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour and then concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was partitioned between ethyl acetate and a saturated aqueous solution of sodium hydrogen carbonate. The organic layer was separated and washed with water followed by brine dried NaSO filtered and evaporated in vacuo. The residue was subjected to flash chromatography Si PPC gradient 0 to 10 EtO in pentane to afford the title compound as a yellow solid 2.96 g 65 . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 8.93 1 H dd J 4.1 0.5 Hz 7.91 1 H ddd J 8.3 5.8 0.5 Hz 7.84 1 H d J 8.3 Hz 1.64 9 H s .

To a solution of 7 fluoro benzo d isothiazole 6 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester 1.0 g 4.0 mmol in DCM 10 mL was added water 0.2 mL and TFA 10 mL . There reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was azeotroped with toluene to give the title compound as a yellow solid 788 mg 100 . LCMS method B R 2.86 min M H 196.

4 Chloro 1 toluene 4 sulfonyl 1H indazole 5 carboxylic acid methyl ester and 2 1 chloro 1 3 methyl 1 toluene 4 sulfonyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl meth Z ylidene but 3 enoic acid methyl ester 1.1 g 3.0 mmol 2 fluoro 4 trimethylsilanylphenylamine 0.61 g 3.3 mmol 2 dicyclohexylphosphino 2 6 diisopropyl biphenyl 0.28 g 0.60 mmol potassium phosphate 0.70 g 3.3 mmol and tris dibenzylideneacetone dipalladium 0 87 mg 0.15 mmol were suspended in toluene 5 mL and the resultant mixture degassed. The reaction mixture was heated at 105 C. for 3 hours. The reaction was quenched by the addition of hydrochloric acid 1M 5 mL and the resultant mixture extracted with ethyl acetate 3 20 mL . The combined organic extracts were washed with brine 20 mL dried MgSO and concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was subjected to flash chromatography Si SPE gradient 0 100 DCM in cyclohexane to yield the title compound as a pale brown solid 0.78 g 50 . H NMR showed the product to be a single isomer. LCMS Method B R 5.22 min M H 512.

To a solution of 4 2 fluoro 4 trimethylsilanylphenylamino 1 toluene 4 sulfonyl 1H indazole 5 carboxylic acid methyl ester 0.56 g 1.1 mmol in DCM 3 mL at 0 C. was added a solution of iodine monochloride in DCM 2.2 mL 1M 2.2 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 30 minutes. The reaction was quenched by the addition of water 10 mL then diluted with saturated aqueous sodium thiosulfate solution 10 mL . The resultant mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 20 mL and the combined organic fractions washed with brine 20 mL dried MgSO then concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was subjected to flash chromatography SiO gradient 0 100 DCM in cyclohexane to yield the title compound as a light brown solid 0.51 g 83 . LCMS Method B R 4.87 min M H 566.

To a solution of 4 2 fluoro 4 iodophenylamino 1 toluene 4 sulfonyl 1H indazole 5 carboxylic acid methyl ester 0.51 g 0.91 mmol in toluene 5 mL was added bis tributyltin oxide 0.92 mL 1.8 mmol and the reaction mixture heated at reflux for 48 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo and the resultant residue subjected to flash chromatography Si PPC gradient 0 10 methanol in DCM to yield the title compound as a light brown solid 0.46 g 92 . LCMS Method B R 4.27 min M H 552.

4 Chloro 1 4 methoxy benzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridine 5 carboxylic acid ethyl ester 1.8 g 5.2 mmol and 2 fluoro 4 iodoaniline 1.5 g 6.3 mmol were dissolved in dioxane 20 mL and the resultant mixture stirred at reflux for 16 hours. The reaction mixture was diluted with water 50 mL and the aqueous layer extracted with dichloromethane 3 20 mL . The combined organic fractions were filtered through a hydrophobic frit and concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was subjected to flash chromatography Si PPC gradient 0 30 ethyl acetate in cyclohexane to yield the title compound as a white solid 1.56 g 56 . LCMS Method B R 4.78 min M H 547.

To a suspension of 4 2 fluoro 4 iodophenylamino 1 4 methoxybenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridine 5 carboxylic acid ethyl ester 380 mg 0.71 mmol in IMS 10 mL was added aqueous sodium hydroxide solution 1.78 mL 1M 1.78 mmol . The reaction mixture was heated at 65 C. for 2 hours during which time all solids dissolved. Volatile solvents were removed in vacuo and the resultant solution was acidified to pH 3 by careful addition of aqueous hydrochloric acid 1M causing a precipitate to form. The precipitate was collected by filtration and dried under vacuum at 45 C. to yield the title compound as a brown solid 360 mg 100 . LCMS Method B R 3.84 min M H 519.

A solution of 2 fluoro 4 trimethylsilanyl phenylamine 1.2 g 6.5 mmol in toluene 20 mL was added to a mixture of 4 bromo indazole 1 5 dicarboxylic acid di tert butyl ester 2.0 g 5.0 mmol Pddba 114 mg 2.5 mol Xantphos 144 mg 5 mol and potassium phosphate tribasic 1.49 g 7 mmol under nitrogen. The atmosphere was evacuated and back filled with nitrogen and then the reaction mixture heated at 90 C. for 18 hours. The cooled reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate filtered through Celite and the filtrate concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was subjected to flash chromatography Si PPC dry loading on HM N gradient 0 to 10 ethyl acetate in cyclohexane to give the title compound as an orange gum 1.9 g 76 . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 10.03 1H s 8.05 1H d J 9.03 Hz 7.57 1H dd J 9.00 0.83 Hz 7.28 7.18 4H m 1.68 9H s 1.63 9H s 0.28 9H s .

To a solution of 4 2 fluoro 4 trimethylsilanyl phenylamino indazole 1 5 dicarboxylic acid di tert butyl ester 850 mg 1.7 mmol in DCM 10 mL at 15 C. was added N bromosuccinimide 303 mg 1.7 mmol as a solution in DCM 3 mL dropwise. The reaction mixture was stirred at 15 C. for 1.25 hours before DCM was added and the solution washed saturated aqueous NaHCOthen water dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was subjected to flash chromatography Si PPC gradient 0 to 10 ethyl acetate in cyclohexane to give the title compound as an orange gum 790 mg 92 . LCMS method B R 5.41 min M CHCN Na 569 571.

To a solution of 4 4 bromo 2 fluorophenylamino indazole 1 5 dicarboxylic acid di tert butyl ester 420 mg 0.83 mmol in DCM 5 ml was added TFA 1.2 mL 16.2 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 16 hours before being concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate 10 mL washed with aqueous saturated sodium bicarbonate solution 10 mL and the aqueous fraction extracted with ethyl acetate 2 10 mL . The combined organic extracts were washed with brine 20 mL dried with MgSOand concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was subjected to flash chromatography Si PPC gradient 0 100 ethyl acetate in cyclohexane to yield the title compound as an off white solid 232 mg 80 . LCMS Method B R 3.22 min M H 350 352.

To a solution of 4 2 fluoro 4 trimethylsilanylphenylamino indazole 1 5 dicarboxylic acid di tert butyl ester 1.07 g 2.14 mmol in DCM 10 mL at 0 C. was added iodine monochloride as a solution in DCM 4.2 mL 1N 4.2 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 20 minutes then diluted with saturated aqueous sodium thiosulfate solution 10 mL and extracted with DCM 2 10 mL . The combined organic extracts were washed with brine 20 mL dried MgSO and concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was subjected to flash chromatography Si PPC gradient 0 100 DCM in cyclohexane to yield the title compound as a pale brown solid 611 mg 52 . LCMS Method B R 5.48 min M H 554.

To a solution of 4 2 fluoro 4 iodophenylamino indazole 1 5 dicarboxylic acid di tert butyl ester 611 mg 1.10 mmol in DCM 5 ml was added TFA 1.2 mL 16.2 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 16 hours before being concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate 10 mL washed with aqueous saturated sodium bicarbonate solution 10 mL and the aqueous fraction extracted with ethyl acetate 2 10 mL . The combined organic fractions were washed with brine 20 mL dried MgSO and concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was subjected to flash chromatography Si PPC gradient 0 100 ethyl acetate in cyclohexane to yield the title compound as an off white solid 367 mg 84 . LCMS Method B R 3.23 min M H 398.

A mixture of 2 4 difluoro 3 formyl benzoic acid 670 mg 3.6 mmol and ammonium chloride 1.15 g 21.6 mmol in methanol 20 mL was heated at reflux for 18 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo and the residue partially dissolved in ethyl acetate and then filtered. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to give the title compound as a yellow solid 747 mg 89 yield . H NMR DMSO d 400 MHz 7.95 1 H td J 8.55 6.32 Hz 5.62 1 H s 3.38 6 H s .

To a cold 78 C. solution of 2 fluoro 4 methylsulfanyl phenyl amine 1.55 g 9.9 mmol in THF 15 mL was added LHMDS 9.9 mL 1.0 M solution in hexanes 9.9 mmol dropwise so as to maintain the temperature below 65 C. After stirring for 30 minutes a solution of 3 dimethoxymethyl 2 4 difluoro benzoic acid 700 mg 3.0 mmol in THF 15 mL was added dropwise the resultant mixture stirred cold for 3 hours then allowed to warm to room temperature and stirred for 18 hours. The reaction was quenched by the addition of aqueous ammonium chloride and the products partitioned between ethyl acetate and water. The aqueous layer was separated and acidified to pH 1 concentrated HCl and then extracted twice with ethyl acetate. The combined organic extracts were dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was triturated with diethyl ether to give the title compound as a yellow solid 105 mg 10 yield . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 10.26 10.23 2 H m 8.04 1 H dd J 8.76 6.31 Hz 7.03 6.96 2H m 6.91 1 H d J 1.96 Hz 6.65 1 H dd J 10.02 8.77 Hz 2.42 3 H s .

To a suspension of 4 fluoro 2 2 fluoro 4 methylsulfanyl phenylamino 3 formyl benzoic acid 105 mg 0.32 mmol in DME 5 mL was added hydrazine hydrate 5 mL and the reaction mixture heated at 90 C. for 18 hours. The volatile solvent was removed in vacuo and the residue acidified with concentrated HCl whilst applying cooling. The resultant precipitate was collected by filtration and washed with water to give the title compound as a tan solid 85 mg 82 . LCMS Method B R3.12 M H 318.

A solution of 2 fluoro 4 trimethylsilanyl phenylamine 340 mg 1.43 mmol 4 bromo benzo d isothiazole 5 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester 449 mg 1.43 mmol Pddba 65 mg 0.07 mmol Xantphos 83 mg 0.14 mmol and potassium phosphate tribasic 455 mg 2.14 mmol in toluene 5 mL was degassed and then the reaction mixture heated at 90 C. for 18 hours. The cooled reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate filtered through Celite and the filtrate concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was subjected to flash chromatography Si PPC gradient 2.5 to 5 diethyl ether in pentane to give the title compound as a dark oil 465 mg 78 . LCMS Method B R 5.76 min M H 417.

To a solution 4 2 fluoro 4 trimethylsilanyl phenylamino benzo d isothiazole 5 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester 416 mg 1.0 mmol in DCM 10 mL at 78 C. was added iodine monochloride as a solution in DCM 2.0 mL 1M 2.0 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at 78 C. for 1 hour then diluted with saturated aqueous sodium thiosulfate solution and extracted with DCM. The combined organic extracts were washed with brine dried NaSO and concentrated in vacuo to yield the title compound as a yellow foam 459 mg 98 . LCMS Method B R 5.32 min M H 471.

To a solution of 4 2 fluoro 4 iodo phenylamino benzo d isothiazole 5 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester 445 mg 0.95 mmoL in DCM 20 mL was added water 0.1 mL the mixture cooled to 0 C. and TFA 20 mL added. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours then concentrated in vacuo and the residue azeotroped with toluene 2 to give the title compound as a beige solid 392 mg 100 . LCMS Method B R 3.97 min M H 415.

To a solution of 7 fluoro benzo d isothiazole 6 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester 1.26 g 5.0 mmol and 2 fluoro 4 iodo phenylamine 1.18 g 5.0 mmol in anhydrous THF 25 mL at 78 C. was added a 1.0M solution of LHMDS in hexanes 10.0 mL 10.0 mmol under a nitrogen atmosphere. The reaction mixture was allowed to warm to room temperature and then stirred for 30 minutes before being quenched by the addition of a saturated aqueous solution of ammonium chloride and extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic layer was separated and washed with water followed by brine dried NaSO filtered and evaporated in vacuo. The residue was subjected to flash chromatography Si PPC gradient 0 to 10 TBME in cyclohexane to give the title compound as a yellow solid 717 mg 30 . LCMS method B R 5.14 min M H 471.

To a solution of 7 2 fluoro 4 iodo phenylamino benzo d isothiazole 6 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester 710 mg 1.51 mmol in DCM 5 mL were added water 0.15 mL and TFA 5 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour before being concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was azeotroped with toluene to give the title compound as a yellow solid 571 mg 91 . LCMS method B R 3.95 min M H 415.

To a solution of 4 bromo 2 fluoro phenylamine 1.05 g 5.55 mmol in anhydrous THF 20 mL at 78 C. was added a 1.0 M solution of LHMDS in hexanes 8.3 mL 8.3 mmol under a nitrogen atmosphere. The reaction mixture was stirred for 10 minutes and a suspension of 7 fluoro benzo d isothiazole 6 carboxylic acid 547 mg 2.78 mmol in anhydrous THF 20 mL was added dropwise. The resultant mixture was stirred at 78 C. for 30 min then allowed to reach room temperature and stirred for 18 hours before being quenched by addition of a 1M aqueous HCl ca. 50 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic layer was separated and washed with water followed by brine dried NaSO filtered and evaporated in vacuo. The resultant residue was subjected to flash chromatography Si PPC gradient 0 to 10 MeOH in DCM to give the title compound as a brown solid 584 mg 58 . LCMS method B R 3.76 min M H 365 367.

To a solution of 4 cyclopropyl 2 fluoro phenylamine 445 mg 2.94 mmol in anhydrous THF 10 mL at 78 C. was added a 1.0 M solution of LHMDS in hexanes 4.4 mL 4.4 mmol under a nitrogen atmosphere. The reaction mixture was stirred for 10 minutes and a suspension of 7 fluoro benzo d isothiazole 6 carboxylic acid 290 mg 1.47 mmol in anhydrous THF 10 mL was added dropwise. The resultant mixture was stirred at 78 C. for 30 minutes then allowed to reach room temperature and stirred for 18 hours before being quenched by addition of a 1M aqueous and extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic layer was separated and washed with water followed by brine dried NaSO filtered and evaporated in vacuo. The resultant residue was triturated with diethyl ether to give the title compound as a brown solid 155 mg 32 . LCMS method B R 3.79 min M H 329.

To a solution of 2 fluoro 4 methylsulfanyl phenylamine 628 mg 4.0 mmol in anhydrous THF 15 mL at 78 C. was added a 1.0M solution of LHMDS in hexanes 6.0 mL 6.0 mmol under a nitrogen atmosphere. The reaction mixture was stirred for 5 minutes and a suspension of 7 fluoro benzo d isothiazole 6 carboxylic acid 394 mg 2.0 mmol in anhydrous THF 15 mL was added dropwise. The resultant mixture was stirred at 78 C. for 30 minutes then allowed to reach room temperature and stirred for 18 hours before being quenched by addition of a 1M aqueous HCl ca. 50 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic layer was separated and washed with water followed by brine dried NaSO filtered and evaporated in vacuo. The resultant residue was subjected to flash chromatography Si PPC gradient 0 to 10 MeOH in DCM to give the title compound as a brown solid 200 mg 30 . LCMS method B R 3.67 min M H 335

To stirring 69 nitric acid 6.48 ml 93.59 mmol cooled to 5 C. was added concentrated sulfuric acid 4.16 ml 78.11 mmol dropwise keeping the internal temperature below 8 C. After complete addition stirring was continued for 15 minutes. This mixture was added to a solution of 2 6 difluorobenzaldehyde 10 g 70.37 mmol in concentrated sulfuric acid 50 ml dropwise keeping the internal temperature below 10 C. After complete addition the mixture was stirred at 5 C. for 15 minutes then allowed to warm to room temperature over 90 minutes. The reaction mixture was poured onto ice water 400 ml and the resulting solid stirred for 1 hour. The solid was collected by filtration washed with water and dried under vacuum to yield the title compound 9.27 g 70 . H NMR DMSO d 300 MHz 10.21 1 H t J 1.02 Hz 8.52 1 H ddd J 9.38 8.60 5.51 Hz 7.51 1 H td J 9.53 1.76 Hz .

A solution of 2 6 difluoro 3 nitro benzaldehyde 9.0 g 48.1 mmol p toluenesulfonic acid monohydrate 183 mg 0.962 mmol trimethylorthoformate 3.5 ml 32.4 mmol and methanol 200 ml was heated at reflux for 4 hours. The reaction mixture was allowed to cool to room temperature and then concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was dissolved in DCM 250 mL and washed with a mixture of water 200 mL and saturated NaHCOsolution 50 mL . The organic layer was dried NaSO and concentrated in vacuo to yield the title compound 10.83 g 97 . H NMR DMSO d 300 MHz 8.28 1 H ddd J 9.34 8.48 5.51 Hz 7.39 1 H td J 9.34 1.81 Hz 5.66 1 H s 3.40 6 H s .

To a solution of 2 fluoro 4 iodo aniline 2.24 g 9.43 mmol in anhydrous THF 30 ml under an atmosphere of nitrogen was added 1M LHMDS in hexanes 18 ml 1M 18.0 mmol keeping the internal temperature below 65 C. After complete addition the reaction mixture was stirred for 30 minutes at 70 C. A solution of 2 dimethoxymethyl 1 3 difluoro 4 nitro benzene 2.0 g 8.58 mmol in anhydrous THF 20 ml was added to the reaction mixture keeping the internal temperature below 68 C. After complete addition the reaction mixture was stirred for 30 minutes at 70 C. then allowed to warm to room temperature and stirred for 22 hours. The reaction was quenched with saturated aqueous NHCl solution and extracted with ethyl acetate 200 ml . The organic layer was washed with brine dried NaSO concentrated in vacuo to a minimum volume and triturated with cyclohexane to yield the title compound 2.18 g 56 . LCMS Method B R 4.26 min M H 449.

To a stirred solution of 2 dimethoxymethyl 3 fluoro 6 nitro phenyl 2 fluoro 4 iodo phenyl amine 1.0 g 2.22 mmol in THF 10 ml was added a solution of 4M HCl at room temperature. After 2 hours the THF was removed in vacuo and the residue diluted with water 20 ml providing a precipitate. The solid precipitate was collected by filtration washed with water and dried under vacuum to yield the title compound 864 mg 96 . LCMS Method B R 4.06 min M H 403.

To a stirred solution of 6 fluoro 2 2 fluoro 4 iodo phenylamino 3 nitro benzaldehyde 864 mg 2.14 mmol in DME 15 ml was slowly added hydrazine hydrate 10 mL at room temperature and the reaction mixture stirred for 18 hours. The organic solvent was removed in vacuo and the mixture diluted with water 50 mL . The resulting solid was collected by filtration washed with water and dried under vacuum to yield the title compound 839 mg 98 . LCMS Method B R 3.61 min M H 399.

To a suspension of 2 fluoro 4 iodo phenyl 5 nitro 1H indazol 4 yl amine 839 mg 2.11 mmol and triethylamine 0.323 mL 2.32 mmol in dichloromethane was added di tert butyl di carbonate 552 mg 2.53 mmoL and DMF 1 mL the resultant solution stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. Further di tert butyl di carbonate 275 mg 1.26 mmoL and DMAP 25 mg 10 mol were added and the mixture stirred for 10 minutes. The reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate 150 mL and washed with saturated aqueous NaHCO 100 mL then water 100 mL and then brine 100 mL before drying NaSO and concentrating in vacuo. The resultant residue was subjected to flash chromatography Si PPC gradient 0 35 ethyl acetate in cyclohexane to give the title compound 739 mg 70 . LCMS Method B R 4.57 min M Boc H 399.

A suspension of sodium dithionite 978 mg 4.21 mmol and 4 2 fluoro 4 iodo phenylamino 5 nitro indazole 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester 700 mg 1.4 mmol in water 35 mL was treated with a 1 1 mixture of THF dioxane 34 mL the homogeneous reaction mixture stirred at room temperature for 4 hours. Further sodium dithionite 978 mg 4.21 mmol was added and stirring continued for 20 hours. The reaction mixture was basified by the addition of saturated aqueous sodium hydrogen carbonate and then extracted with ethyl acetate 150 mL . The organic extract was washed with water dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to give the title compound as a yellow solid 758 mg quant. . LCMS Method B R 4.09 min M H 469.

To a solution of cold 5 C. nitric acid 2.7 mL was added concentrated sulfuric acid 1.75 mL 32 mmoL dropwise keeping the temperature below 5 C. The solution was added to a cooled solution of 2 6 difluoro 4 methoxy benzaldehyde 5.0 g 29 mmoL in sulfuric acid 20 mL over 15 minutes keeping the temperature below 5 C. After stirring at 0 C. for 2 hours the orange solution was poured on to ice the white precipitate which formed was collected by filtration to give the title compound as a white solid 6.33 g 100 . H NMR CDCl 10.20 1 H t J 1.17 Hz 6.69 1 H dd J 11.68 1.93 Hz 4.03 3 H s .

A mixture of 2 6 difluoro 4 methoxy 3 nitro benzaldehyde 6.3 g 29 mmol in methanol 30 mL with p toluenesulfonic acid 110 mg 0.58 mmol was heated at reflux for 18 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo and the residue partitioned between saturated aqueous sodium hydrogen carbonate and ethyl acetate. The aqueous layer extracted with ethyl acetate and the combined organic extracts dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to give the title compound as a pale yellow solid 6.52 g 85 . H NMR CDCl 6.59 1 H dd J 11.48 2.08 Hz 5.52 1 H s 3.93 3 H s 3.45 6 H s .

To a cold 78 C. solution of 2 fluoro 4 iodo phenyl amine 2.97 g 12.5 mmol in THF 20 mL was added LHMDS 24 mL 1.0 M solution in hexanes 24 mmol dropwise maintaining the temperature below 65 C. After stirring for 30 minutes a solution of 2 dimethoxymethyl 1 3 difluoro 5 methoxy 4 nitro benzene 3.0 g 11.4 mmol in THF 20 mL was added dropwise the resultant mixture stirred cold 78 C. for 1 hour then allowed to warm to room temperature and stirred for 18 hours. The reaction was quenched by the addition of aqueous ammonium chloride and extracted twice with diethyl ether. The combined organic extracts were washed with water dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to give an orange solid. The crude orange solid was triturated in diethyl ether to give the title compound as a yellow solid 4.2 g 77 . H NMR CDCl 7.36 1 H dd J 10.09 1.93 Hz 7.28 7.17 2 H m 6.59 1 H t J 8.62 Hz 6.44 1H d J 11.47 Hz 5.49 1 H s 3.88 3 H s 3.39 6 H s .

A mixture of 2 dimethoxymethyl 3 fluoro 5 methoxy 6 nitro phenyl 2 fluoro 4 iodo phenyl amine 4.2 g 8.7 mmol in diethyl ether 70 mL and 4M HCl 50 mL was stirred at room temperature for 8 hours. The mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate the organic extract washed with water dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to give the title compound as a yellow solid 3.1 g 82 . LCMS Method B R 4.00 no molecular ion.

A biphasic mixture of 6 fluoro 2 2 fluoro 4 iodo phenylamino 4 methoxy 3 nitro benzaldehyde 1.5 g 3.46 mmol in hydrazine hydrate 10 mL and DME 10 mL was stirred at room temperature for 4 hours then heated at 50 C. for 3 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo the residue treated with water and the resultant solid precipitate collected by filtration to give a red orange solid. The solid was recrystallised from IMS to give the title compound as a yellow solid 956 mg 64 . LCMS Method B R 3.62 min M H 429 M H 427.

A suspension of 2 fluoro 4 iodo phenyl 6 methoxy 5 nitro 1H indazol 4 yl amine 900 mg 2.1 mmol in DCM 10 mL was treated with di tert butyl dicarbonate 550 mg 2.5 mmol and triethylamine 0.321 mL 4.6 mmol and DMF 2 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred for 5 hours at room temperature before being concentrated in vacuo and the residue partitioned between ethyl acetate and saturated aqueous sodium hydrogen carbonate. The organic layer was separated washed with water dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was subjected to flash chromatography Si PPC gradient 0 to 15 ethyl acetate in cyclohexane to give the title compound as a yellow solid 534 mg 48 . H NMR CDCl 7.84 1H s 7.52 1 H dd J 9.63 1.90 Hz 7.47 1 H s 7.43 7.38 1 H m 7.29 1 H d J 0.78 Hz 6.91 1 H t J 8.40 Hz 4.02 3 H s 1.70 9 H s .

A suspension of sodium dithionite 524 mg 3.48 mmol and 4 2 fluoro 4 iodo phenylamino 6 methoxy 5 nitro indazole 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester 434 mg 0.87 mmol in water 10 mL was treated with a 1 1 mixture of THF dioxane 10 mL . The homogeneous reaction mixture stirred at room temperature for 18 hours. The reaction mixture was basified by the addition of saturated aqueous sodium hydrogen carbonate and then extracted twice with ethyl acetate. The combined organic extracts were washed with water dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to give the title compound as a yellow solid 300 mg 73 . LCMS Method B R4.16 min M H 499 M H 497.

To a solution of 4 2 fluoro 4 iodo phenylamino 1 toluene 4 sulfonyl 1H indazole 5 carboxylic acid 0.58 g 1.05 mmol in DMF 10 mL was added EDCI 0.22 g 1.1 mmol followed by HOBt 0.16 g 1.1 mmol and the reaction mixture stirred at room temperature for 10 minutes. O 2 vinyloxy ethyl hydroxylamine 0.12 g 1.1 mmol and DIPEA 0.2 mL 1.1 mmol were added and the reaction stirred for 16 hours before being concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate 10 mL washed with an aqueous saturated sodium bicarbonate solution 10 mL before the aqueous fraction was extracted twice with ethyl acetate 2 10 mL . The combined organic extracts were washed with brine 20 mL dried MgSO and concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was subjected to flash chromatography Si PPC gradient 0 100 ethyl acetate in cyclohexane to yield the title compound as a pale brown solid 439 mg 66 . LCMS Method B R 4.40 min M H 637.

To a solution of 4 2 fluoro 4 iodophenylamino 1 toluene 4 sulfonyl 1H indazole 5 carboxylic acid 2 vinyloxy ethoxy amide 200 mg 0.31 mmol in methanol 3 mL was added hydrochloric acid 1 mL 1 N and the reaction mixture stirred at room temperature for 1 hour. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo and the resultant residue dissolved in TFA 2 mL . The reaction mixture was heated at 65 C. for 3 hours then at 50 C. for 16 hours before being concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate 10 mL washed with aqueous saturated sodium bicarbonate solution 10 mL and the aqueous fraction extracted twice with ethyl acetate 2 10 mL . The combined organic fractions were washed with brine 20 mL dried MgSO and concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was subjected to reverse phase preparative HPLC gradient 10 95 acetonitrile water 0.1 formic acid Phenominex gemini PhC6 5 micron 250 20 mm . The resultant product was dissolved in ethyl acetate 5 mL and washed with aqueous saturated sodium bicarbonate solution 10 mL . The aqueous fraction was extracted twice with ethyl acetate 2 10 mL and the combined organics washed with brine 20 mL dried with MgSOand concentrated in vacuo to yield the title compound as a white solid 14 mg 10 . LCMS Method A R 8.31 min M H 457. H NMR DMSO d 400 MHz 13.19 1 H s 11.60 1H s 9.93 1H s 7.66 1 H dd J 10.31 1.93 Hz 7.46 1H d J 8.70 Hz 7.42 1H d J 8.56 Hz 7.23 1H s 7.01 1H d J 8.77 Hz 6.91 1H t J 8.64 Hz 4.68 1H s 3.85 2H t J 4.92 Hz 3.60 3.52 2H m .

To a solution of 4 2 fluoro 4 iodophenylamino 1H indazole 5 carboxylic acid 2.14 g 5.39 mmol and O 2 vinyloxy ethyl hydroxylamine 668 mg 6.50 mmol in DMF 50 mL was added EDCI 1.14 g 5.93 mmol HOBt 0.80 g 5.93 mmol and DIPEA 1 mL 5.93 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours before being concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate 30 mL washed with aqueous saturated sodium hydrogen carbonate solution 300 mL and the aqueous fraction extracted with ethyl acetate 2 20 mL . The combined organic extracts were washed with brine 30 mL dried MgSO and concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was subjected to flash chromatography SiO gradient 0 100 ethyl acetate in cyclohexane to yield the title compound as a pale yellow solid 1.85 g 71 . LCMS Method B R 3.52 min M H 481.

To a solution of 4 2 fluoro 4 iodophenylamino 1H indazole 5 carboxylic acid 2 vinyloxyethoxy amide 1.85 g 3.84 mmol in methanol 40 mL was added hydrochloric acid 3 mL 1N 3 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour during which an off white solid precipitated. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo and the residue triturated with hot methanol water 10 mL 1 1 . The product was collected by filtration and dried in vacuo to yield the title compound as an off white solid 1.26 g 72 . LCMS Method A R 8.28 min M H 457. H NMR DMSO d 13.20 1 H s 11.61 1 H s 9.93 1 H s 7.66 1 H dd J 10.32 1.95 Hz 7.46 1 H d J 8.81 Hz 7.42 1 H dd J 8.49 1.84 Hz 7.24 1 H s 7.01 1 H d J 8.78 Hz 6.91 1 H t J 8.65 Hz 4.68 1 H s 3.85 2 H dd J 5.41 4.48 Hz 3.56 2 H t J 4.85 Hz .

4 2 Fluoro 4 iodophenylamino 1 4 methoxybenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridine 5 carboxylic acid 360 mg 0.71 mmol O 2 vinyloxyethyl hydroxylamine 79 mg 0.77 mmol HOBt 103 mg 0.77 mmol EDCI 147 mg 0.77 mmol and DIPEA 130 L 0.77 mmol were dissolved in DMF 10 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 16 hours then concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate 10 mL washed with aqueous saturated sodium bicarbonate solution 10 mL and the aqueous fraction extracted twice with ethyl acetate 2 10 mL . The combined organic fractions were washed with brine 20 mL dried MgSO and concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was subjected to flash chromatography Si SPE gradient 0 100 ethyl acetate in cyclohexane to yield the title compound as a yellow solid 346 mg 81 . LCMS Method B R 4.08 min M H 604.

4 2 Fluoro 4 iodophenylamino 1 4 methoxybenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridine 5 carboxylic acid 2 vinyloxyethoxy amide 346 mg 0.57 mmol was dissolved in TFA 5 mL and the reaction mixture heated at 65 C. for 3 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo and the residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate 10 mL washed with aqueous saturated sodium bicarbonate solution 10 mL and the aqueous fraction extracted twice with ethyl acetate 2 10 mL . The combined organic extracts were washed with brine 20 mL dried MgSO and concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was subjected to flash chromatography Si SPE gradient 0 10 methanol in DCM to yield the title compound as a yellow solid 75 mg 30 . LCMS Method A R 6.67 min M H 458. H NMR DMSO d 400 MHz 13.51 1H s 11.75 1H s 10.38 1H s 8.45 1H s 7.80 1H dd J 9.67 1.86 Hz 7.64 7.60 1H m 7.30 7.21 1H m 6.74 1H s 4.71 1H s 3.90 2H t J 4.95 Hz 3.61 3.56 3H m .

To a solution of 4 2 fluoro 4 iodophenylamino 1 4 methoxybenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridine 5 carboxylic acid 728 mg 1.4 mmol HOBt 228 mg 1.7 mmol and EDCI 323 mg 1.7 mmol in DMF 15 mL was added a solution of S 1 aminooxypropan 2 ol hydrochloride 200 mg 1.5 mmol and DIPEA 596 L 3.5 mmol in DMF 5 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 hours then diluted with water 30 mL and the aqueous layer extracted with dichloromethane 3 20 mL . The combined organic extracts were filtered through a hydrophobic frit and concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was subjected to flash chromatography Si SPE gradient 0 100 ethyl acetate in cyclohexane to yield the title compound as a cream solid 500 mg 60 . LCMS Method B R 3.23 min M H 592.

4 2 Fluoro 4 iodophenylamino 1 4 methoxybenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridine 5 carboxylic acid S 2 hydroxypropoxy amide 500 mg 0.85 mmol was dissolved in TFA 5 mL and the resulting mixture heated at 65 C. for 3 hours before being concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was dissolved in dichloromethane 10 mL and methanol 2 mL then stirred vigorously with aqueous saturated sodium bicarbonate solution 20 mL for 2 hours. The aqueous layer was extracted with dichloromethane 2 10 mL and the combined organic fractions filtered through a hydrophobic frit then concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was purified by reverse phase HPLC gradient 10 95 methanol water 0.1 formic acid Phenominex gemini PhC6 5 micron 250 20 mm to yield the title compound as a white solid 106 mg 27 . LCMS Method A R 7.19 min M H 472. H NMR DMSO d 400 MHz 13.51 1H s 10.37 1H s 8.45 1H s 7.80 1H dd J 9.68 1.89 Hz 7.63 7.60 1H m 7.25 1H t J 8.42 Hz 6.74 1H s 3.88 3.81 1H m 3.73 3.69 2H m 1.05 3H d J 6.34 Hz .

To a solution of 4 2 fluoro 4 iodophenylamino 1 4 methoxybenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridine 5 carboxylic acid 737 mg 1.4 mmol HOBt 231 mg 1.7 mmol and EDCI 327 mg 1.7 mmol in DMF 15 mL was added a solution of 2 aminooxy 2 methyl propan 1 ol hydrochloride 280 mg 2.0 mmol and DIPEA 603 L 3.6 mmol in DMF 5 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 days then diluted with water 30 mL and the aqueous layer extracted with dichloromethane 3 20 mL . The combined organic fractions were filtered through a hydrophobic frit and concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was subjected to flash chromatography Si SPE gradient 0 100 ethyl acetate in cyclohexane to yield the title compound as a yellow solid 420 mg 49 . LCMS Method B R 3.47 min M H 606.

4 2 Fluoro 4 iodophenylamino 1 4 methoxybenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridine 5 carboxylic acid 2 hydroxy 1 1 dimethylethoxy amide 420 mg 0.69 mmol was dissolved in TFA 5 mL and the reaction mixture heated at 65 C. for 3 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo and the resultant residue was dissolved in dichloromethane 10 mL and methanol 2 mL before being washed with aqueous saturated sodium bicarbonate solution 3 10 mL . The aqueous layer was extracted with dichloromethane 2 10 mL and the combined organic extracts filtered through a hydrophobic frit then concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was purified by reverse phase HPLC gradient 10 95 methanol water 0.1 formic acid Phenominex gemini PhC6 5 micron 250 20 mm to yield the title compound as a white solid 21 mg 11 . LCMS Method A R 7.71 min M H 486. H NMR DMSO d 400 MHz 13.53 1H s 11.20 1H s 10.15 1H s 8.49 1H s 7.80 1H d J 9.68 Hz 7.63 1H d J 8.38 Hz 7.25 1H t J 8.38 Hz 6.70 1H s 4.65 1H s 1.17 6H s .

To a solution of 4 2 fluoro 4 iodophenylamino 1H indazole 5 carboxylic acid 150 mg 0.38 mmol and O R 2 2 dimethyl 1 3 dioxolan 4 ylmethyl hydroxylamine 83 mg 0.57 mmol in DMF 4 mL was added EDCI 80 mg 0.42 mmol HOBt 56 mg 0.42 mmol and DIPEA 70 L 0.42 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3.5 hours before being concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate 10 mL washed with aqueous saturated sodium bicarbonate solution 10 mL and the aqueous fraction extracted twice with ethyl acetate 2 10 mL . The combined organic extracts were washed with brine 20 mL dried MgSO and concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was subjected to flash chromatography Si SPE gradient 0 10 methanol in DCM to yield the title compound as a pale yellow solid 135 mg 68 . LCMS Method B R 3.45 min M H 527.

To a solution of 4 2 fluoro 4 iodophenylamino 1H indazole 5 carboxylic acid R 2 2 dimethyl 1 3 dioxolan 4 ylmethoxy amide 135 mg 0.26 mmol in methanol 4 mL was added hydrochloric acid in dioxane 2 mL 4N 8 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour before being concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was subjected to flash chromatography Si SPE gradient 0 10 methanol in DCM to yield the title compound as an off white solid 94 mg 75 . LCMS Method A R 7.67 min M H 487. H NMR DMSO d 400 MHz 13.20 1H s 11.67 1H s 9.94 1H s 7.66 1H dd J 10.30 1.92 Hz 7.47 1H d J 8.79 Hz 7.45 7.41 1H m 7.22 1H s 7.01 1H d J 8.78 Hz 6.92 1H t J 8.64 Hz 3.92 3.85 1H m 3.76 3.58 2H m 3.41 3.31 2H m .

To a solution of 4 4 bromo 2 fluorophenylamino 1H indazole 5 carboxylic acid 115 mg 0.33 mmol and O 2 vinyloxy ethyl hydroxylamine 51 mg 0.49 mmol in DMF 3 mL was added EDCI 69 mg 0.36 mmol HOBt 49 mg 0.36 mmol and DIPEA 61 L 0.36 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 4 hours before being concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate 10 mL washed with aqueous saturated sodium bicarbonate solution 10 mL and the aqueous fraction extracted twice with ethyl acetate 2 10 mL . The combined organic extracts were washed with brine 20 mL dried MgSO and concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was subjected to flash chromatography Si SPE gradient 0 10 methanol in DCM to yield the title compound as a pale yellow solid 96 mg 67 . LCMS Method B R 3.43 min M H 433 435.

To a solution of 4 4 bromo 2 fluorophenylamino 1H indazole 5 carboxylic acid 2 vinyloxy ethoxy amide 96 mg 0.22 mmol in methanol 5 mL was added hydrochloric acid 1 mL 1N 1 mmol . The reaction was stirred at room temperature for 30 minutes before being concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was dissolved in methanol 2 mL and a few drops of water added causing the product to precipitate. The product was collected by filtration and dried in vacuo to yield the title compound as an off white solid 50 mg 55 . LCMS Method A R 7.99 min M H 409 411. H NMR DMSO d 400 MHz 13.20 1H s 11.61 1H s 9.95 1H s 7.58 1H dd J 10.48 2.24 Hz 7.47 1H d J 8.77 Hz 7.29 1H ddd J 8.60 2.21 1.05 Hz 7.23 1H s 7.08 1H t J 8.81 Hz 7.01 1H d J 8.81 Hz 4.68 1H s 3.86 2H t J 4.95 Hz 3.56 3H s .

To a solution of 4 4 bromo 2 fluorophenylamino 1H indazole 5 carboxylic acid 115 mg 0.33 mmol and S 1 aminooxy propan 2 ol hydrochloride 63 mg 0.49 mmol in DMF 3 mL was added EDCI 69 mg 0.36 mmol HOBt 49 mg 0.36 mmol and DIPEA 150 L 0.85 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 16 hours before being concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate 10 mL washed with aqueous saturated sodium bicarbonate solution 10 mL and the aqueous fraction extracted twice with ethyl acetate 2 10 mL . The combined organic fractions were washed with brine 20 mL dried MgSO and concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was subjected to reverse phase preparative HPLC 10 90 acetonitrile water 0.1 formic acid Phenominex gemini PhC6 5 micron 250 20 mm . The resultant product was dissolved in ethyl acetate 5 mL and washed with aqueous saturated sodium bicarbonate solution 10 mL . The aqueous fraction was extracted twice with ethyl acetate 2 10 mL and the combined organic layers washed with brine 20 mL dried MgSO and concentrated in vacuo to yield the title compound as a white solid 61 mg 44 . LCMS Method A R 8.45 min M H 423 425. H NMR DMSO d 400 MHz 13.21 1H s 11.63 1H s 9.90 1H s 7.58 1H dd J 10.47 2.24 Hz 7.46 1H d J 8.75 Hz 7.29 1H ddd J 8.59 2.19 1.06 Hz 7.23 1H s 7.08 1H t J 8.80 Hz 7.02 1H d J 8.78 Hz 4.77 1H d J 4.15 Hz 3.84 3.78 1H m 3.70 3.61 2H m 1.03 3H d J 6.33 Hz .

To a solution of 4 2 fluoro 4 iodo phenylamino benzo d isothiazole 5 carboxylic acid 240 mg 0.58 mmol in THF 6 mL was added DIPEA 396 L 2.34 mmol O 2 vinyloxy ethyl hydroxylamine 119 mg 1.15 mmol HOBt 156 mg 1.15 mmol and EDCI 221 mg 1.15 mmol before the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 18 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo and the resultant residue was partitioned between ethyl acetate and water. The organic extract was washed with aqueous saturated sodium bicarbonate solution then water dried NaSO and concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was subjected to flash chromatography Si SPE gradient 0 10 methanol in DCM to yield the title compound 258 mg 89 . LCMS Method B R 3.83 min M H 500.

To a suspension of 4 2 fluoro 4 iodo phenylamino benzo d isothiazole 5 carboxylic acid 2 vinyloxy ethoxy amide 258 mg 0.52 mmol in methanol 10 mL was added hydrochloric acid 1.0 mL 1M solution 1.0 mmol and the reaction mixture stirred at room temperature for 1 hour. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo and the residue partitioned between ethyl acetate and saturated aqueous NaHCO. The organic layer was separated and washed with water then brine dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was subjected to flash chromatography Si SPE gradient 0 100 ethyl acetate in cyclohexane to give the title compound as a white solid 140 mg 57 . LCMS Method A R 9.72 min M H 474. H NMR CDOD 400 MHz 8.57 1H s 7.71 1H d J 8.53 Hz 7.69 7.61 1H m 7.51 1H dd J 10.43 1.94 Hz 7.33 1H d J 8.54 Hz 6.67 1H t J 8.63 Hz 3.92 2H t J 4.60 Hz 3.70 2H t J 4.60 Hz .

To a solution of 4 2 fluoro 4 methylsulfanyl 1H indazole 5 carboxylic acid 85 mg 0.268 mmol and O 2 vinyloxyethyl hydroxylamine 33 mg 0.32 mmol in DMF 10 mL was added EDCI 66 mg 0.32 mmol HOBt 47 mg 0.32 mmol and DIPEA 68 L 0.40 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 18 hours. The reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with saturated aqueous sodium hydrogen carbonate then water dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The resultant solid was subjected to flash chromatography Si PPC gradient 0 to 75 ethyl acetate in DCM to give the title compound as a tan solid 45 mg 42 . LCMS Method A R 3.40 min M H 403.

A solution of 4 2 fluoro 4 methylsulfanyl phenylamino 1H indazole 5 carboxylic acid 2 vinyloxy ethoxy amide 45 mg 0.112 mmol in methanol 5 mL was treated with hydrochloric acid 1M 0.225 mL 0.22 mmol and the reaction mixture stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. The reaction mixture was then concentrated in vacuo and the residue dissolved in methanol and to this solution was added water causing a precipitate to form which was filtered off. The filtrate was extracted twice with ethyl acetate the combined extracts dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The crude product was combined with the earlier solid precipitate and subjected to flash chromatography Si PPC gradient 0 to 10 methanol in DCM to give a solid. The solid was triturated in diethyl ether to give a pale tan solid 23 mg 55 . LCMS Method A R7.79 M H 377. H NMR MeOD 400 MHz 7.52 7.44 1 H m 7.21 7.09 3 H m 7.06 1 H dd J 8.41 2.08 Hz 6.93 1 H d J 8.88 Hz 4.54 1 H s 4.02 3.98 2 H m 3.75 2 H dd J 5.28 4.05 Hz 2.48 3 H s .

To a solution of 4 2 fluoro 4 iodophenylamino 1H indazole 5 carboxylic acid 100 mg 0.252 mmol in DMF 3 mL was added O ethyl hydroxylamine hydrochloride 37 mg 0.378 mmol HOBt 37 mg 0.277 mmol and EDCI 53 mg 0.277 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour then DIPEA 91 l 0.529 mmol was added and the reaction stirred at room temperature for 18 hours. Additional quantities as at the start of the reaction of O ethyl hydroxylamine hydrochloride HOBt EDCI and DIPEA were added to the reaction and stirring was continued for 4 hours. The reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with saturated aqueous sodium hydrogen carbonate the solid precipitate in the mixture was filtered off washed with water to give the title compound 41 mg 37 . LCMS Method A R 9.65 min M H 441. H NMR DMSO d 400 MHz 13.19 1 H s 11.51 1 H s 9.97 1 H s 7.66 1 H dd J 10.35 1.95 Hz 7.46 1 H d J 8.78 Hz 7.42 1 H dd J 8.47 1.84 Hz 7.25 1 H s 7.02 1 H d J 8.76 Hz 6.91 1 H t J 8.66 Hz 3.86 2 H q J 7.04 Hz 1.15 3 H t J 7.03 Hz .

To a solution of 4 2 fluoro 4 iodophenylamino 1H indazole 5 carboxylic acid 100 mg 0.252 mmol in DMF 3 mL was added 0 tetrahydro pyran 4 yl hydroxylamine 44 mg 0.378 mmol HOBt 37 mg 0.277 mmol EDCI 53 mg 0.277 mmol and DIPEA 92 l 0.529 mmol . The reaction was stirred at room temperature for 70 hours. The reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with saturated aqueous sodium hydrogen carbonate then water dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was subjected to flash chromatography Si PPC gradient 30 100 ethyl acetate in cyclohexane . The resultant solid was triturated in methanol the solid filtered off washed with methanol to yield the title compound 33 mg 26 . LCMS Method A R 9.27 min M H 497. H NMR DMSO d 400 MHz 13.19 1 H s 11.44 1 H s 9.87 1 H s 7.65 1 H dd J 10.36 1.95 Hz 7.48 1H d J 8.77 Hz 7.44 7.38 1H m 7.28 1 H s 7.03 1 H d J 8.75 Hz 6.89 1 H t J 8.66 Hz 4.02 3.93 1 H m 3.84 3.76 2 H m 3.36 3.28 2 H m 1.88 1.81 2 H m 1.51 2 H dddd J 12.96 9.42 8.75 4.11 Hz .

To a solution of 4 2 fluoro 4 iodophenylamino 1H indazole 5 carboxylic acid 70 mg 0.176 mmol and O cyclopropylmethyl hydroxylamine 23 mg 0.21 mmol in DMF 3 mL was added EDCI 40 mg 0.21 mmol HOBt 28 mg 0.21 mmol and DIPEA 70 L 0.42 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 18 hours. The reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with saturated aqueous sodium hydrogen carbonate then water dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The resultant solid was triturated with a solution of hot methanol water NaHCO the solid filtered off washed with water to give the title compound as a pale pink solid 24 mg 29 . LCMS Method A R 10.42 min M H 467. H NMR DMSO d 400 MHz 13.17 1 H s 7.64 1 H dd J 10.37 1.95 Hz 7.48 1 H d J 8.76 Hz 7.42 7.37 1 H m 7.26 1 H d J 0.95 Hz 7.01 1 H dd J 8.76 0.99 Hz 6.87 1 H t J 8.66 Hz 3.62 2 H d J 7.13 Hz 1.08 1.00 1 H m 0.50 0.44 2 H m 0.23 0.17 2 H m .

To a solution of 4 2 fluoro 4 iodophenylamino 1H indazole 5 carboxylic acid 70 mg 0.176 mmol and O methyl hydroxylamine 19 mg 0.21 mmol in DMF 2 mL was added EDCI 40 mg 0.21 mmol HOBt 28 mg 0.21 mmol and DIPEA 70 L 0.42 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 18 hours. The reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with saturated aqueous sodium hydrogen carbonate then water dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The resultant solid was triturated with a solution of hot methanol water NaHCO the solid filtered off washed with water to give the title compound as a pale pink solid 33 mg 44 . LCMS Method A R 9.09 min M H 427. H NMR DMSO d 400 MHz 13.20 1 H s 11.62 1 H s 9.99 1 H s 7.66 1 H dd J 10.33 1.94 Hz 7.46 7.40 2 H m 7.23 1 H s 7.01 1 H d J 8.78 Hz 6.92 1 H t J 8.66 Hz 3.64 3 H s .

To a solution of 4 2 fluoro 4 iodophenylamino 1H indazole 5 carboxylic acid 70 mg 0.176 mmol and N O dimethyl hydroxylamine 21 mg 0.21 mmol in DMF 3 mL was added EDCI 40 mg 0.21 mmol HOBt 28 mg 0.21 mmol and DIPEA 70 L 0.42 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 18 hours. The reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with saturated aqueous sodium hydrogen carbonate then water dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo then azeotroped with diethyl ether to give a pale tan foam 35 mg 45 . LCMS Method A R 9.63 min M H 441. H NMR DMSO d 400 MHz 13.16 1 H s 8.25 1 H s 7.59 7.51 2 H m 7.34 7.28 2 H m 7.14 1 H d J 8.55 Hz 6.71 1 H t J 8.73 Hz 3.38 3 H s 3.10 3 H s .

To a solution of 4 2 fluoro 4 iodophenylamino 1H indazole 5 carboxylic acid 70 mg 0.176 mmol and 3 hydroxyazetidine hydrochloride 23 mg 0.21 mmol in DMF 1 mL was added EDCI 40 mg 0.21 mmol HOBt 28 mg 0.21 mmol and DIPEA 70 L 0.42 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 18 hours. The reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with saturated aqueous sodium hydrogen carbonate then water dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was triturated in cyclohexane to give the title compound as a pale tan solid 39 mg 49 . LCMS Method A R 8.23 min M H 453. H NMR DMSO d 400 MHz 13.17 1 H s 9.55 1 H s 7.63 1 H dd J 10.47 1.94 Hz 7.41 7.37 1 H m 7.37 1 H s 7.32 1 H d J 8.69 Hz 7.05 7.00 1 H m 6.92 6.82 1 H m 5.67 1 H d J 6.13 Hz 4.44 4.37 1 H m 4.24 2 H br s 3.83 2 H br s .

To a solution of 4 2 fluoro 4 iodo phenylamino benzo d iso thiazole 5 carboxylic acid 150 mg 0.362 mmol diisopropylethylamine 0.25 mL 1.45 mmol HOBt 98 mg 0.724 mmol and S 1 aminooxy propan 2 ol 92 mg 0.724 mmol in DMF 2 mL was added EDCI 139 mg 0.724 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred for 16 hours at room temperature diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with water a saturated aqueous solution of sodium hydrogen carbonate then brine before being dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was subjected to flash chromatography Si PPC gradient 30 to 80 EtOAc in cyclohexane to afford the title compound as a solid 45 mg 26 . LCMS method A R 10.26 min M H 488. H NMR DMSO d 400 MHz 11.72 1 H s 9.22 1 H s 8.69 1 H s 7.86 7.81 1 H m 7.64 7.55 2 H m 7.30 1 H dd J 8.47 1.83 Hz 6.63 1 H t J 8.72 Hz 4.73 1 H s 3.76 3.68 1 H m 3.53 2 H d J 5.78 Hz 0.99 3 H d J 6.33 Hz .

To a solution of 4 2 fluoro 4 iodo phenylamino benzo d iso thiazole 5 carboxylic acid 250 mg 0.604 mmol diisopropylethylamine 0.42 mL 2.42 mmol HOBt 163 mg 0.1.21 mmol and O R 2 2 dimethyl 1 3 dioxolan 4 ylmethyl hydroxylamine 178 mg 1.21 mmol in DMF 2 mL was added EDCI 232 mg 1.21 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred for 16 hours at room temperature diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with water a saturated aqueous solution of sodium hydrogen carbonate then brine before being dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was subjected to flash chromatography Si PPC gradient 0 to 50 EtOAc in cyclohexane to afford the title compound as a solid 142 mg 43 . LCMS method B R 3.92 min M H 544.

To a solution of 4 2 Fluoro 4 iodo phenylamino benzo d isothiazole 5 carboxylic acid R 2 2 dimethyl 1 3 dioxolan 4 ylmethoxy amide 142 mg 0.261 mmol in MeOH 2 mL was added a 4M HCl solution in dioxane 2 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours before being concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was taken up in ethyl acetate washed with a saturated aqueous solution of sodium hydrogen carbonate water then brine dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was triturated in ethyl acetate cyclohexane to afford the title compound as a solid 73 mg 56 . LCMS method A R 8.97 min M H 504. NMR DMSO d 400 MHz 11.78 1 H s 9.28 1 H s 8.64 1 H s 7.84 1 H dd J 8.48 0.92 Hz 7.64 7.57 2 H m 7.31 1 H dd J 8.47 1.83 Hz 6.65 1 H t J 8.71 Hz 4.80 1 H s 4.54 1 H s 3.80 1 H t J 6.46 Hz 3.68 3.61 2 H m 3.32 2 H s .

To a solution of 7 2 fluoro 4 methylsulfanyl phenylamino benzo d isothiazole 6 carboxylic acid 200 mg 0.60 mmol and diisopropylethylamine 0.31 mL 1.80 mmol in DMF 2 mL were added 0 R 2 2 dimethyl 1 3 dioxolan 4 ylmethyl hydroxylamine 176 mg 1.20 mmol EDCI 230 mg 1.20 mmol and HOBt 162 mg 1.20 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred for 18 hours at room temperature and then diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with water a saturated aqueous solution of sodium hydrogen carbonate and brine before being dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was subjected to flash chromatography Si PPC gradient 50 to 100 EtO in pentane to afford the title compound as a yellow oil 171 mg 61 . LCMS method B R 3.85 min M H 464.

To a solution of 7 2 fluoro 4 methylsulfanyl phenylamino benzo d isothiazole 6 carboxylic acid R 2 2 dimethyl 1 3 dioxolan 4 ylmethoxy amide 170 mg 0.37 mmol in MeOH 2 mL was added a 1.0M aqueous solution of hydrochloric acid 0.80 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour before being concentrated in vacuo. The residue was taken up in ethyl acetate washed with a saturated aqueous solution of sodium hydrogen carbonate followed by brine dried NaSO filtered and evaporated in vacuo. The resultant residue was subjected to flash chromatography Si PPC gradient 0 to 100 MeOH in DCM to afford the title compound as a yellow solid 42 mg 26 . LCMS Method A R 8.80 min M H 478. H NMR CDOD 8.81 1 H s 7.63 7.56 2 H m 7.12 7.04 3 H m 4.10 4.04 1 H m 3.98 3.86 2 H m 3.64 3.55 2 H m 2.50 3 H s .

To a solution of 7 4 cyclopropyl 2 fluoro phenylamino benzo d isothiazole 6 carboxylic acid 155 mg 0.47 mmol and diisopropylethylamine 0.10 mL 0.61 mmol in DMF 5 mL were added O R 2 2 dimethyl 1 3 dioxolan 4 ylmethyl hydroxylamine 97 mg 0.66 mmol EDCI 117 mg 0.61 mmol and HOBt 83 mg 0.61 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred for 2 hours at room temperature diluted with ethyl acetate washed with water a saturated aqueous solution of sodium hydrogen carbonate then brine before being dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was taken in MeOH 10 mL and a 4.0M solution of hydrochloric acid in dioxane 1.0 mL was added. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour before being diluted with ethyl acetate washed with a saturated aqueous solution of sodium hydrogen carbonate then brine dried NaSO filtered and evaporated in vacuo. The resultant residue was subjected to reverse phase HPLC Gemini 5 micron C250 21.20 mm column 0.1 formic acid gradient acetonitrile water 15 to 95 ramp time 20 minutes to afford the title compound as a yellow solid 115 mg 59 . LCMS method A R 9.02 min M H 418. H NMR DMSO d 400 MHz 9.98 1 H s 8.97 1 H s 7.72 1 H s 7.61 1 H d J 8.35 Hz 7.09 6.90 3 H m 3.95 1 H dd J 9.94 3.81 Hz 3.79 2 H d J 16.92 Hz 3.40 2 H d J 5.46 Hz 2.03 1.94 1 H m 1.03 0.97 2 H m 0.77 0.71 2 H m .

To a solution of 7 4 bromo 2 fluoro phenylamino benzo d isothiazole 6 carboxylic acid 584 mg 1.59 mmol and diisopropylethylamine 0.82 mL 4.77 mmol in DMF 6 mL were added O R 2 2 dimethyl 1 3 dioxolan 4 ylmethyl hydroxylamine 468 mg 3.18 mmol EDCI 611 mg 3.18 mmol and HOBt 430 mg 3.18 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred for 18 hours at room temperature diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with water a saturated aqueous solution of sodium hydrogen carbonate then brine before being dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was subjected to flash chromatography Si PPC gradient 50 to 100 TBME in cyclohexane to afford the title compound as a yellow oil 370 mg 47 . LCMS method B R 3.96 min M H 496 498.

To a solution of 7 4 bromo 2 fluoro phenylamino benzo d isothiazole 6 carboxylic acid R 2 2 dimethyl 1 3 dioxolan 4 ylmethoxy amide 370 mg 0.75 mmol in MeOH 4 mL was added a 1.0M aqueous solution of hydrochloric acid 1.50 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours before being concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was taken up in ethyl acetate washed with a saturated aqueous solution of sodium hydrogen carbonate then brine dried NaSO filtered and evaporated in vacuo. The resultant residue was subjected to flash chromatography Si PPC gradient 0 to 100 MeOH in DCM to afford the title compound as a yellow solid 242 mg 71 . LCMS method A R 8.80 min M H 456 458. H NMR CDOD 400 MHz 8.87 1 H s 7.76 7.70 1 H m 7.61 1 H d J 8.36 Hz 7.42 7.36 1 H m 7.30 7.25 1 H m 6.95 1 H t J 8.66 Hz 4.06 1 H dd J 10.08 3.55 Hz 3.96 3.83 2 H m 3.64 3.54 2 H m .

To a solution of 7 4 bromo 2 fluoro phenylamino benzo d isothiazole 6 carboxylic acid 210 mg 0.57 mmol and diisopropylethylamine 0.29 mL 1.71 mmol in DMF 2 mL were added O 2 vinyloxy ethyl hydroxylamine 117 mg 1.14 mmol EDCI 220 mg 1.14 mmol and HOBt 154 mg 1.14 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred for 18 hours at room temperature diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with water a saturated aqueous solution of sodium hydrogen carbonate then brine before being dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was subjected to flash chromatography Si PPC gradient 0 to 100 TBME in cyclohexane to afford the title compound as a yellow oil 95 mg 37 . LCMS method B R 3.90 min M H 452 454.

To a solution of 7 4 bromo 2 fluoro phenylamino benzo d isothiazole 6 carboxylic acid 2 vinyloxy ethoxy amide 95 mg 0.21 mmol in MeOH 4 mL was added a 1.0M aqueous solution of hydrochloric acid 0.42 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour before being concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was taken up in ethyl acetate washed with a saturated aqueous solution of sodium hydrogen carbonate then brine dried NaSO filtered and evaporated in vacuo. The resultant residue was subjected to flash chromatography Si PPC gradient 0 to 100 ethyl acetate in DCM to afford the title compound as a yellow solid 62 mg 70 . LCMS method A R 9.51 min M H 426 428. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 9.37 1 H s 8.85 1 H s 8.76 1 H s 7.51 1 H d J 8.40 Hz 7.43 1 H d J 8.40 Hz 7.34 7.29 1 H m 7.28 1 H d J 8.75 Hz 7.02 1 H t J 8.46 Hz 4.10 2 H t J 4.09 Hz 3.91 1 H s 3.80 2 H s .

To a solution of 7 2 fluoro 4 iodo phenylamino benzo d isothiazole 6 carboxylic acid 328 mg 0.79 mmol and diisopropylethylamine 0.41 mL 2.37 mmol in DMF 2 mL were added O 2 vinyloxy ethyl hydroxylamine 163 mg 1.58 mmol EDCI 303 mg 1.58 mmol and HOBt 213 mg 1.58 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred for 18 hours at room temperature diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with water then a saturated aqueous solution of sodium hydrogen carbonate then brine before being dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was subjected to flash chromatography Si PPC gradient 0 to 100 TBME in cyclohexane to afford the title compound as a yellow foam 194 mg 49 . LCMS method B R 3.99 min M H 500.

To a solution of 7 2 fluoro 4 iodo phenylamino benzo d isothiazole 6 carboxylic acid 2 vinyloxy ethoxy amide 187 mg 0.37 mmol in MeOH 4 mL was added a 1.0M aqueous solution of hydrochloric acid 0.75 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour before being concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was taken up in ethyl acetate washed with a saturated aqueous solution of sodium hydrogen carbonate then brine dried NaSO filtered and evaporated in vacuo. The resultant residue was subjected to flash chromatography Si PPC gradient 0 to 100 ethyl acetate in DCM to afford the title compound as a yellow solid 128 mg 72 . LCMS method A R 9.81 min M H 474. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 9.33 1 H s 8.86 1 H s 8.77 1 H s 7.55 7.40 4 H m 6.84 1 H t J 8.30 Hz 4.10 2 H t J 4.16 Hz 3.91 1 H t J 6.45 Hz 3.80 2 H t J 4.55 Hz .

To a solution of 7 2 fluoro 4 iodo phenylamino benzo d isothiazole 6 carboxylic acid 377 mg 0.91 mmol and diisopropylethylamine 0.47 mL 2.73 mmol in DMF 4 mL were added O R 2 2 dimethyl 1 3 dioxolan 4 ylmethyl hydroxylamine 268 mg 1.82 mmol EDCI 349 mg 1.82 mmol and HOBt 246 mg 1.82 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred for 18 hours at room temperature diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with water a saturated aqueous solution of sodium hydrogen carbonate then brine before being dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was subjected to flash chromatography Si PPC gradient 0 to 100 TBME in cyclohexane to afford the title compound as a yellow solid 266 mg 54 . LCMS method B R 4.04 min M H 544.

To a solution of 7 2 fluoro 4 iodo phenylamino benzo d isothiazole 6 carboxylic acid R 2 2 dimethyl 1 3 dioxolan 4 ylmethoxy amide 263 mg 0.48 mmol in MeOH 10 mL was added a 1.0M aqueous solution of hydrochloric acid 0.97 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 18 hours before being concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was taken up in ethyl acetate washed with a saturated aqueous solution of sodium hydrogen carbonate then brine dried NaSO filtered and evaporated in vacuo. The resultant residue was subjected to flash chromatography Si PPC gradient 0 to 100 ethyl acetate in DCM to afford the title compound as a yellow solid 127 mg 53 . LCMS method A R 9.05 min M H 504. H NMR CDOD 400 MHz 8.88 1 H s 7.74 1 H d J 8.36 Hz 7.61 1 H d J 8.35 Hz 7.53 1 H dd J 10.01 1.93 Hz 7.44 1 H ddd J 8.36 1.93 1.06 Hz 6.76 1 H t J 8.53 Hz 4.05 1 H dd J 10.03 3.50 Hz 3.96 3.83 2 H m 3.63 3.52 2 H m .

To a solution of 5 amino 4 2 fluoro 4 iodo phenylamino indazole 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester 200 mg 0.43 mmol in pyridine 2 mL was added cyclopropyl sulfonyl chloride 0.218 mL 2.14 mmol and the mixture stirred at room temperature for 1 hour. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo and the residue partitioned between ethyl acetate 100 mL and water 100 mL . The organic layer was separated washed with brine then dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was subjected to flash chromatography Si PPC gradient 10 35 ethyl acetate in cyclohexane to yield the title compound 206 mg 84 . LCMS Method B R 4.17 min MH 573.

To a solution of 5 cyclopropanesulfonylamino 4 2 fluoro 4 iodo phenylamino indazole 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester 206 mg 0.36 mmol in DCM 8 mL was added TFA 1 mL and the reaction mixture stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. Additional TFA 1 mL was added and stirring continued for a further 1 hour before the reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo and the residue azeotroped with DCM methanol and then DCM again. The resultant residue was triturated with diethyl ether the solid filtered off and dried under vacuum at 40 C. to give the title compound as a yellow solid 83 mg 49 . LCMS Method A R 10.03 M H 437 H NMR DMSO d 400 MHz 13.14 1 H s 9.07 1 H s 7.80 1 H s 7.57 1 H dd J 10.84 1.96 Hz 7.39 1 H s 7.31 1 H d J 8.74 Hz 7.25 7.20 2 H m 6.45 1 H t J 8.84 Hz 2.40 2.32 1 H m 0.75 0.62 4 H m 0.05 1 H t J 3.33 Hz .

To a solution of 5 amino 4 2 fluoro 4 iodo phenylamino 6 methoxy indazole 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester 200 mg 0.401 mmol in pyridine 2 mL was added cyclopropyl sulfonyl chloride 281 mg 2.0 mmol and the reaction mixture stirred at room temperature for 18 hours. The reaction mixture was treated with water and extracted twice with ethyl acetate. The combined organic extracts were washed with water dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to give an oily residue. The residue was subjected to flash chromatography Si PPC gradient 0 to 25 ethyl acetate in cyclohexane to give the title compound as an off white foam 217 mg 89 . LCMS Method B R 4.16 min M H 603.

A solution of 5 cyclopropanesulfonylamino 4 2 fluoro 4 iodo phenylamino 6 methoxy indazole 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester 217 mg 0.36 mmol in DCM 5 mL was treated with TFA 2 mL and the reaction mixture stirred at room temperature for 1 hour. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo and the residue triturated with diethyl ether to give the title compound as an off white solid 102 mg 52 . LCMS method A R 10.17 M H 503. H NMR DMSO d 400 MHz 12.92 1 H s 8.72 1 H s 7.60 7.52 2 H m 7.34 7.24 2 H m 6.71 1 H s 6.53 1 H t J 8.80 Hz 3.84 3 H s 2.53 2.46 1 H m 0.84 0.73 2 H m 0.72 0.66 2 H m .

